<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>48. Stocktaking</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="48-stocktaking">48. Stocktaking</h1>

<p>After the ambulance had rolled down from the ramp, David took a moment to orient himself on the airfield. He spotted an exit, turned to Emily, and smiled broadly.</p>

<p>“Hold on tight before the jarheads change their minds,” David said, his eyes glinting. With a chuckle, he hit the sirens and floored the gas. The ambulance lurched forward, emergency lights flashing. </p>

<p>Approaching the gate, he barely reduced speed, blasting the horn. The startled security guards at the exit, seeing the Army ambulance rushing toward them, hurriedly opened the large metal gates.</p>

<p>David sloppily saluted as he sped over the speed bumps, sending Joe careening through the patient compartment.</p>

<p>Joe caught Mercer&apos;s &quot;I told you so&quot; expression.</p>

<p>“Don’t. Just don’t,” Joe muttered, catching a handle by the back door. He tightened his grip, silently cursing David’s reckless driving yet realizing it might be their only ticket out.</p>

<hr />

<p>The ambulance stopped in Franklin Park. The backdoor opened to reveal quiet, tree-lined paths, a stark contrast to the chaos just minutes ago. Rain-dampened leaves glistened under the light filtering through the dense canopy.</p>

<p>“You alright?” Emily asked Joe, who looked as pale as she did.</p>

<p>“Yeah, I’ll live. But I never want to ride with David again,” Joe grumbled, his voice tinged with a mix of relief and anger.</p>

<p>“Hey, have you ever thought about sitting in the front next time? It’s not my fault that you always hide in the back,” David teased with a laugh.</p>

<p>Joe couldn’t resist joining in; Emily and Mercer followed suit. The brief moment of levity alleviated the tension, offering a much-needed break.</p>

<p>Mercer looked at David and Emily. “How did you pull that off with the MPs?”</p>

<p>“He basically harassed the guy until he saw an opportunity to make us someone else&apos;s problem,” Emily summarized.</p>

<p>“You know, the military being the military,” David shrugged, “the old above-your-pay-grade-ruse.”</p>

<p>Mercer nodded slowly.</p>

<p>“But honestly, we’re back at square one, aren’t we?” Emily asked soberly.</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t say so,” Joe looked around. “We’re in Austin, and we still have a plan. Let’s take stock of what we’ve got.”</p>

<p>“A ride that’s not exactly inconspicuous,” David said with a sweeping gesture.</p>

<p>Mercer opened one of the black Pelican cases on the bench.</p>

<p>“Bingo,” he said, “a DanInject JM Standard with a Bushnell Banner scope, five CO2 cartridges and darts, tranquilizing agent.”</p>

<p>“You know your weapons,” Emily said with a raised brow.</p>

<p>“Well,” Mercer held up a slip of paper with several QR codes and lines of text. “I found the packing list. Not exactly standard issue for Army Rangers or FBI agents.”</p>

<p>Next, he pulled out a vial from the case. “Ketamine,” he read the label, “this should work.”</p>

<p>The rest of the team looked at him quizzically.</p>

<p>“Ketamine has a rapid onset and is pretty effective. It sedates and induces a trance-like state, which should be useful. Inject it intramuscularly, and Bolt will be down within a minute without knowing what hit him.”</p>

<p>“Was that also on your package list?” Joe asked.</p>

<p>“Nah, that’s something a Ranger needs to know—basic medical readiness training,” Mercer answered.</p>

<p>Joe rolled his eyes.</p>

<p>“What’s in the other cases?” David asked, stepping forward. He opened the second one and whistled. “All the good stuff, two high-performance laptops, smart glasses, jammers, a couple of surveillance drones, and a wide-range frequency scanner. Let’s put this to use,” he said, switching it on. After studying the display, he opened the door. “Be right back,” he said, jumping out.</p>

<p>The three left behind exchanged glances as they heard David rummaging in the front of the ambulance. Mercer opened the third and found five M-84 grenades, aka flashbangs, two Glock 17s, four magazines, and a Ka-Bar knife. He loaded a magazine into one of the Glocks, tucked it into the waistband at the small of his back, and strapped the knife to his leg.</p>

<p>David returned, grinning triumphantly, holding a small black box with wires hanging out. “Our onboard navigation is toast, but they can’t track us now either. Let’s move the truck and hide it near the convention center.”</p>

<p>“But this time, I’m driving,” Joe said firmly, jumping out of the compartment.</p>

<hr />

<p>Jason Bolt and his retinue walked through the Austin Convention Center’s Palazzo, passing the tall, sturdy concrete pillars. Their cool, smooth surfaces were a stark contrast to the organic pattern of the carpet, which had squares and rectangles in muted shades of beige and brown. Special Agent Jake Lin looked around as they headed for the empty large staircase. The left side of the hall had large windows, which was not ideal from a security standpoint. </p>

<p>Jake had been ushered into a government Gulfstream G450, flying him to Austin shortly after he had returned to the J. Edgar Hoover building, on special request of Jason Bolt himself, to join his close protection detail. This not only came to his surprise but also to Trevis Riggs, the Supervisory Special Agent from the Austin Field Office in charge of the detail, who had been welcoming him to the team in a professional but clearly distanced manner.</p>

<p>Jake’s eyes were drawn to two large, circular orbs mounted on the wall of the stairs. Each orb was encased in a vibrant halo of colored lights. The orbs were made of copper, contrasting sharply with the luminous neon bands slicing through them. Somehow, they seemed to hum with energy.</p>

<p>The agent taking point was already up the first steps, following a small surveillance drone he was operating with his smart glasses. Other drones, operated by Bolt’s social media team, provided live footage to a worldwide audience, waiting for Bolt’s keynote, which would kick off the most important developer conference of the year in two hours.</p>

<p>“See why I had to take the stairs? It’s like reaching the next level. I wanted you to watch the show. It’s going to be epic,” Jason turned to Lin, his smile enigmatic. Jake nodded, his unease deepening as he wondered what Bolt had planned.</p>

<p>Bolt turned to Riggs on his right. “Everything ready?”</p>

<p>“We have agents placed in the Grand Ballroom and the Austin Suite. The last electronic sweep was done a few minutes ago. We have portable scanner units at all entries. The last time we had so much going on was when the POTUS came to Austin.”</p>

<p>“Sounds about right,” Bolt said, smiling serenely into a drone’s camera.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
