<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>36. Close Encounters</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="36-close-encounters">36. Close Encounters</h1>

<p>When a car arrived at Donnelly’s cabin, Luke Brennan tilted up the night vision device on his headgear. As the cabin door opened, he had a good look through his field glasses.</p>

<p>“Well, well, well,” he said softly, easing back into the small well where his team had been waiting. “We have all eggs in one basket, Hartman, Donnelly, Stone, and as a surprise guest, Mercer.”</p>

<p>“You think the FBI knew about the hideout all along, boss?” Mendez asked and raised an eyebrow.</p>

<p>“Can’t know for sure, but unlikely. Mercer and his partner are suspended, so I guess he’s gone rogue.”</p>

<p>“It’s a bit out of character for the Major, though,” Mendez said thoughtfully, remembering his encounters with the former Army Ranger while serving in the task force.</p>

<p>“I’ve been wondering the same, Two. I guess we will find out soon enough. Alright, we take positions to cover the cabin from all angles. Watch your six. We don’t know if the FBI will show up as well. And keep radio silence; I want no chatter.”</p>

<p>After Brennan had pointed each operator to their positions, they moved slowly with their M4 carbines at the low ready and soon became invisible in the shadows of the dark woods.</p>

<hr />

<p>“So let me get this straight,” Alex Mercer said, fixing Joe Hartman with a stare. “The killing cars had AI chips with a secret backdoor, letting someone control them unnoticed?”</p>

<p>Joe Hartman nodded slowly. Mercer looked around and saw the grave expressions of David Donnelly and Emily Stone. If anything, those two believed Hartman was telling the truth.</p>

<p>“And the massacre in Georgetown was a coverup for killing the one person you call ‘Victim Zero,’ so somebody weaponized this backdoor,” Mercer paused and looked intently again at Joe. “And this is none less than Jason Bolt, the golden child of America’s AI industry.”</p>

<p>Mercer stood up from the chair at the kitchen table and started to pace through the wooden cabin.</p>

<p>“And finally, a conspiracy that must go well into the highest echelons manipulated FBI’s SENTINEL, so it identifies the good Doctor Hartman wrongfully as the killer to make him the scapegoat.” And with that, Mercer stopped and turned back to the table.</p>

<p>“Well, if you put it this way… It sounds a bit crazy,” David admitted.</p>

<p>“But listen, Alex,” Emily said while Joe gave her an irritated look. “If it was true, even if there was just the slightest chance that this was true, we need to do something.”</p>

<p>Mercer rubbed the stubble on his chin. “Yeah, I can see that. And I must say that I felt something was really off in the case from the beginning. So, let’s say I’m open to the possibility of this being all true. But it begs the question of why. Why did Bolt add this backdoor to the chips in the first place? Why was ‘Victim Zero’ killed in such a dramatic way? Somebody was sending a message there.”</p>

<p>Joe was clearing his throat. “I think that both are related. At least the public execution of Victim Zero. It said: ‘I’m all-powerful, and there’s no way to escape my wrath.’ Something the guy did really piss Bolt off. And Jason wanted to make sure everybody else stayed in line. At least everybody in the know of the backdoor.”</p>

<p>Mercer slowly nodded. “That makes sense, in a twisted way.”</p>

<p>“What’s Bolt’s endgame?” David asked, frowning.</p>

<p>“Control,” Joe replied. “Imagine every critical system at his command. This isn’t just power—it’s godlike.”</p>

<p>“Let’s assume for a minute that’s his goal. He probably has his chips in every critical infrastructure, so why play this farce with Joe?” Emily asked.</p>

<p>“He’s waiting for something. Something still needs to happen, and soon. Only then does the distraction with Joe make sense,” Mercer answered with a frown.</p>

<p>Joe winced. “It’s a distraction that might get me killed or ruined.”</p>

<p>“That’s probably the icing on the cake for Bolt,” David’s expression darkened.</p>

<p>The four stayed silent as the reality of the situation sunk in.</p>

<p>“Any idea why Clayton is after you?” Mercer turned to Joe.</p>

<p>“Well, he probably thinks I was involved in the autonomous drone attack on his daughter after everybody believes I killed two dozen people with autonomous cars?”</p>

<p>“Ironhand isn’t that simplistic,” Mercer frowned.</p>

<p>“Who? Anyways, Bolt is big in the military drone business. His ethics are hazy at best. Like sending out experimental AI in the wild and letting them learn from their mistakes. The stronger the signal, the better. Called that part of the evolution,” Joe said, his voice trailing away.</p>

<p>Before Mercer could inquire further, they all turned to the radio scanner on the windowsill, which suddenly sprang to life with a high-pitched tone.</p>

<p>“What’s happening?” Emily’s voice wavered.</p>

<p>“We’ve got company,” David muttered, locking eyes with Mercer.</p>

<p>Alex’s gun was out before he spoke. “Lights off! Everyone down!”</p>

<hr />

<p>Luke Brennan was observing the movements in the cabin when, suddenly, the lights went off inside. He wondered if his team had been spotted, although they hadn’t moved in over 30 minutes. But then he also noticed that the woods around him had become completely silent. Normally, nature’s soundscape never ceased but shifted to its nocturnal inhabitants at night instead.</p>

<p>Only then did he hear a low sound above him. The four drones’ rotors stood out against the eerie silence. They flew low and carried a heavy payload if he interpreted the deep hum correctly.</p>

<p>As the drones got into position around the cabin, scanning it for weaknesses, Brennan realized their purpose in a flash of recognition. “Air raid on cabin incoming, scramble!” he barked into the microphone while sprinting away from the quadcopters’ target.</p>

<p>He made it only a few meters into the dense forest when the drones started their suicide attack. Their onboard AIs had calculated the best vector of attack. Smashing through the windows of the wooden cabin, three of the single-purpose intelligences issued their final, synchronized command, igniting the C4 installed at each drone’s center of gravity. The fourth exploded a fraction of a second later, releasing an all-consuming shower of thermite, as close to hell’s fire as anything could be.</p>

<p>The explosion ripped the massive building apart as if made of matches, accelerating splinters and shards like projectiles through the surrounding vegetation.</p>

<p>The blast hit Brennan, flinging him through the air. When he hit the ground, the sharp edge of a broken window shard stuck out from the back of his ballistic vest. Disoriented from the explosion, time seemed to slow down for Brennan. Burning debris fell like snowflakes around him, his ears rang, and his vision blurred. Numbness spread through him, and he barely registered the scent of burnt wood and acrid smoke. As darkness began to overwhelm him, he instinctively tried to crawl away, but his limbs refused to cooperate.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
