<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>19. Witness</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="19-witness">19. Witness</h1>

<p>Alex Mercer and Jake Lin sat in the waiting room next to Jason Bolt’s office, eying the colorful posters on the wall and the large foosball table that took up the center. </p>

<p>“Quite the cliché, isn’t it?” Jake said while Mercer rolled his eyes. </p>

<p>“Yep, but better interviewing real people and doing real police work than sitting on our asses while the clock is ticking.”</p>

<p>“If Bolt’s for real is debatable, Alex. Have you read his file?”</p>

<p>“There’s truth,” Mercer said. “It’s a bit weird to have him at the top of our interview list, but if SENTINEL says so…”</p>

<p>Bolt’s stunning assistant, Leila, appeared in the doorway again. Five minutes earlier, she had offered them freshly made organic green smoothies, which both politely declined.</p>

<p>“Jason will see you now, gentlemen.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“I’m Special Agent Alexander Mercer, this is Special Agent Jake Lin. Thank you for seeing us on such short notice, Mr. Bolt,” Mercer said as both flashed their badges. </p>

<p>“Of course, I’m always happy to help, Alex!”</p>

<p>Mercer, who had never met the man before, thought about this informality that would have been quite offensive under normal circumstances. He quickly looked around Bolt’s office, at the neon signs and arcade machines, and then at the billionaire before him in his baby-blue hoodie. “Bolt likes games,” he thought and decided to play along for now and let it slip.</p>

<p>Bolt pointed to a seating area with colorful leather couches, glass coffee tables with chrome accents, and bean bags.</p>

<p>“All right, Agents, I understand that the Georgetown incident brings you here.”</p>

<p>“Indeed, Mr Bolt. What are your thoughts on it? Anything that you noticed in particular that stood out?” Mercer asked.</p>

<p>“Horrible, just horrible. So much destruction and pain,” Bolt said and fleetingly stroked the back of his head.</p>

<p>“Was anybody you knew personally involved?” Mercer asked, slightly irritated after exchanging a look with Jake, who raised an eyebrow.</p>

<p>“No, nobody,” Bolt answered quickly, “but I feel very connected to the world.”</p>

<p>Mercer nodded and changed the subject. “I have another question. Did you work closely with Joseph Hartman while you were at MIT?”</p>

<p>“Joe? I sure did. Why are you asking? What has he done?”</p>

<p>“I can’t say that he has done anything. We’re just trying to establish a few things regarding Doctor Hartman. How would you describe his work on AI?”</p>

<p>“He’s brilliant. Well, he’s good. Let’s say he’s a decent AI researcher. He has some pretty radical ideas about AI’s supremacy and developed some useful concepts for autonomous systems. But at the end of the day, he doesn’t have what it takes to build greatness,” Bolt said, leaning back in his seat and smiling thinly.</p>

<p>“I take it that this was why you left his research group?” Jake asked.</p>

<p>“Joe Hartman is a showman, but not much more,” Jason said and shrugged. It took some effort for him to remain outwardly calm, which wasn’t unnoticed by the agents.</p>

<p>While sitting in Bolt’s game parlor-styled office, Mercer found this statement particularly interesting, although he wasn’t overly fond of the professor himself.</p>

<p>“Why do I feel there’s something more to this?” Mercer asked, looking Bolt directly in the eyes. He noticed the slightest twitch in Bolt’s face before the billionaire’s voice turned much colder:</p>

<p>“I can’t really say, Agent Mercer. Maybe you should ask his ex-girlfriend, Emily Stone, about his deformed character. Or David Donnelly about Hartman’s childhood trauma. Things are rarely what they seem, especially with Hartman.”</p>

<p>Mercer noted the shift in Bolt’s demeanor. There was something here that Bolt was barely keeping in check.</p>

<p>“And now, if you will excuse me, I have an important call.”</p>

<p>And with that, Jason Bolt stood up and made clear that the audience had ended.</p>

<p>“Thank you for your time. We will see ourselves out,” Jake answered as both agents rose from their seats.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Well, this was odd,” Jake turned to Mercer after they had stepped out on the street again.</p>

<p>“You mean that arcade parlor? Or how Bolt reacted to the killing cars?”</p>

<p>“Yep, both. I can’t shake the feeling that Bolt is more affected by Georgetown than we told us.”</p>

<p>“The man is producing most of the AI chips in the US; of course, he’s affected by autonomous cars wreaking havoc and killing people.”</p>

<p>“That’s exactly what I mean. He never mentioned the dead. Pain and destruction were his words.”</p>

<p>“Maybe you’re reading too much into that guy. Let’s concentrate on the facts,” Mercer said after a moment.</p>

<p>“So, what have we learned then… Bolt and Hartman didn’t part on good terms. Bolt thinks that Hartman is overrated, an egomaniac who has problems with women and childhood trauma to deal with,” Lin said while counting the points with his fingers.</p>

<p>“It was a bit heavy-handed for my taste,” Mercer said while looking at the converted brick-stone building that housed Bolt’s offices.</p>

<p>“Indeed, it looks like Bolt and Hartman share a history deeper than your typical work relationship,” Jake answered, following Mercer’s gaze.</p>

<p>“Maybe there’s more to it. What he told us fits too well into the profile of a psychopath.”</p>

<p>“You probably have to be a psychopath to be successful in Bolt’s line of business.”</p>

<p>“Granted. But you know what I meant, Jake. He was trying to set us on Hartman’s tracks.”</p>

<p>“Who’s now reading things into Bolt? Nevertheless, it is worth following up.”</p>

<p>“Let’s start with the last two points,” Mercer suggested, “and pay Ms Stone and Professor Donnelly a visit.”</p>

<p>“Sounds like a plan,” Jake answered, unlocking their car with his badge.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
