<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>12. Reunion</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="12-reunion">12. Reunion</h1>

<p>“For fuck’s sake, Joe!” Emily cried out as she instantly recognized the man’s voice. She was ready to hit him right in the face but stopped herself as she started to take in his un-Joe-like appearance. He had removed the shades, and his eyes constantly scanned the streets behind her. She also noticed bruises on his face and the torn jacket.</p>

<p>“Oh my God, what happened to you?” Her voice softened, anger replaced by concern. </p>

<p>“I have no clue, Emmy,” he answered, unconsciously switching to her nickname from better times, continuing to watch the street.</p>

<p>Irritated, Emily switched gears again: “So you show up here in some ridiculous disguise, ignore my calls, and now what?” She felt her anger rising. Was he trying to fool her? She was about to turn away.</p>

<p>“Sorry, wait, please hear me out! I was on my way to you when, out of nowhere, three guys showed up and tried to kidnap me!” He looked around again.</p>

<p>Emily was waiting, tapping her foot impatiently.</p>

<p>“Then the FBI appeared and tried to arrest me… Then the kidnappers threw some kind of smoke bomb, and a fight broke out. That’s when I managed to get away, figured out a makeshift disguise to dodge the cameras, and came here hoping to catch you.”</p>

<p>“I have to give you that, Joseph Hartman. This is the craziest shit of an excuse for being late, ever.” Their eyes locked for a moment, and Joe saw the tiniest flicker of amusement in her face, which was oddly comforting given his predicament.</p>

<p>The phone in Emily’s pocket started to buzz again with a staccato of messages. </p>

<p>“Let me check those… Holy shit!” She took two steps back.</p>

<hr />

<p>Emily Stone’s mind was racing. What should she do now? Her story just got exponentially bigger. And the man responsible stood right before her. At least if the messages from her editor, Julia Sanchez, were to be believed. Joe Hartman - a killer? She should run and cry for help. Or she should start to stream this right now and try to get him on record. </p>

<p>But Emily did neither. She just stood there, unable to decide what to do.</p>

<p>“Emily? What’s going on? Emily? Emmy!” Joe reached for her but stopped mid-air.</p>

<p>She blinked. Then, slowly, she handed him her phone. </p>

<p>Joe took the slim device and started reading. The Washington Post had been tipped off that SENTINEL, the FBI’s investigative AI, had identified him as responsible for the autonomous car attack in Georgetown. It was now a terrorist attack with a death toll of 25 and rising. The other messages asked Emily where she was and why she didn’t answer, with a growing sense of urgency.</p>

<p>Joe’s head started spinning. The mechanisms he had developed over the years to protect himself from becoming overwhelmed started to fail. When he handed the phone back to Emily, Joe nearly dropped it. It seemed like all the confidence had evaporated within seconds. For the first time today, he didn’t know what to do.</p>

<p>Emily, who had watched him closely, made up her mind at this exact moment and turned her phone off: “Tell me what’s on your mind, Joe.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“It’s all in the data, Emmy. There has to be a pattern that explains what happened in Georgetown. But I swear I have nothing to do with the killing cars,” Joe said, now adopting the hashtag that had gone viral on social media over the last 24 hours.</p>

<p>“Actually, I was invited yesterday to an internal FBI briefing and gave my views on the situation. I don’t believe that this was a malfunction on the car level. What are the odds that 16 cars of five different brands will have the same bug that only showed itself at this exact place and time? Well, not impossible, but not likely either.”</p>

<p>“What about malware, some kind of virus that infected the cars’ computer systems?” </p>

<p>“Well, the same logic applies here. We have five distinct operating systems; a virus would have to exploit the same vulnerability in every one or be super complex. Then, there is the question of the vector: How did the virus get into the car’s systems?” Joe felt better now that he was back in analysis mode. “And even if that were possible, an attacker would have needed to know which cars would be in M street at this point in time. Or infect all cars in Georgetown.”</p>

<p>“But as you said, Joe, it’s only unlikely, not impossible. Did the FBI find anything in the car’s systems?” Emily started taking notes in her little black book as they slowly walked together.</p>

<p>“Nope. The cars were stopped by a cop using an EMP grenade. The flash of electromagnetic waves not only disabled the cars but also wiped out all of their memory chips and processors. Fried them, to be exact.” Joe was shaking his head slowly.</p>

<p>“Anything special about the place where it happened? Something that confused the car’s AIs?” Emily asked.</p>

<p>“I don’t know, really. There was nothing mentioned in the briefing. But that’s not unheard of. In the early days, Tesla’s autonomous cars sometimes collided with police cruisers because they were dazzled by the flashing lights. But that was decades ago.”</p>

<p>“So, what’s your working theory? How does this SENTINEL fit into all of this? Why are they after you, Joe?” Emily asked the question they had avoided in the past minutes, looking him straight in the eyes.</p>

<p>“As far as theories go, there is one thing that the cars had in common, though. They were all connected to FLOWS.”</p>

<p>Emily knew the system with the cumbersome official name ‘Flexible Logistics Optimization and Wayfinding System’ well; it was one of Joe’s projects he was particularly proud of. It added an additional layer of coordination to the autonomous cars traveling the cities’ streets, avoiding congestion and improving safety by enforcing an adaptable set of rules for how the cars were allowed to drive through the streets, built on a powerful self-learning AI. </p>

<p>“I can’t imagine how to be honest, but it’s just Occam’s Razor, really.” Joe used the razor frequently in his lectures. In a nutshell, the least complicated one is usually the correct of all possible explanations for something.</p>

<p>“And that would also explain why you came into the FBI’s crosshairs,” Emily added, following Joe’s train of thought.</p>

<p>“But FLOWS has multiple failsafes built in, and it’s still a mystery why all of this happened on a particular corner of M Street,” Joe frowned. </p>

<p>“Plus the three thugs who tried to snatch you,” Emily added uncomfortably.</p>

<p>On cue, Joe looked around again, searching for signs of them being followed.</p>

<p>“I should just go to the FBI and cooperate. I’ve done nothing wrong,” Joe said, a hint of desperation in his voice.</p>

<p>Emily stepped closer, her eyes narrowing. “And if you do, what then? You think they’ll just let you go because it was all a big misunderstanding?”</p>

<p>Joe hesitated, unsure.</p>

<p>“Joe, they’ve already pegged you as the mastermind behind a terrorist attack. The media’s going to run wild with it. You will require cold, hard proof. Without that, you&apos;ll be branded a terrorist for life, Your career, your freedom—gone.”</p>

<p>Joe swallowed hard, the weight of her words sinking in.</p>

<p>“And those kidnappers? They’re not just after you for kicks. Whoever sent them wants something from you; they’re willing to use force to get it. If they catch you, it’s not just about being taken—it’s about being tortured for information, maybe even… killed.”</p>

<p>A seagull landed a few feet before them on a handrail and tilted its head as if assessing its chances of finding something edible to steal. Emily and Joe stopped for a moment, thinking.</p>

<p>“I’m really scared about the kidnappers, Joe. This is extremely dangerous and much, much bigger. I can feel it. Please, you must find a safe place until we know what’s happening.” Emily had a pleading look on her face.</p>

<p>Joe sighed. She was correct. He needed to find out what was going on, and that wouldn’t work in a holding cell or if he was tied to a chair in a dark basement.</p>

<p>He opened his backpack and quickly found what he was looking for. Holding up the memory pack that Assistant Director Koop had handed him yesterday, he forced a smile at Emily.</p>

<p>“There’s the data, and there’s the truth. At least I hope so,” he said and frowned.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
