<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>13. Debriefing</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="13-debriefing">13. Debriefing</h1>

<p>“So basically, you’re saying he walked away, and you have no idea where he is right now?” Assistant Director Helen Koop glared at Alex Mercer, Jake Lin, and the Special Agent in Charge, Tom Edwards.</p>

<p>“With all due respect, ma’am, this is not what I was saying,” Edwards addressed the camera above Koop’s image in the Washington Field Office’s meeting room. It was a small and functional space, with no natural light, dominated by the large 3D screen. A faint smell of stale coffee lingered in the air.</p>

<p>Edwards looked expectantly at Mercer, who straightened his posture slightly.</p>

<p>“Assistant Director, the situation was very fluid when Hartman escaped,” Mercer took over. “We had significant opposition from the three armed unknowns who deployed an M-84 stun grenade. They were professionals.”</p>

<p>“About that, Mercer. Do you have any idea what they were doing on your scene?” Koop asked, her tone slightly less hostile now.</p>

<p>“We can say that they were no associates of the suspect. The drone and camera feeds show that they were approaching Hartman and trying to get him under their control. They were obviously hostile but only used minimum force.”</p>

<p>“Throwing grenades on Boston’s streets isn’t exactly what I would call minimum force.”</p>

<p>“It depends, ma’am. The three operatives were clearly capable of more but didn’t escalate the situation.”</p>

<p>“So, Alex, assaulting a federal agent wasn’t an escalation?” Helen Koop raised her eyebrows.</p>

<p>“I was attacking one of the operatives, the team leader. He did defend himself, that’s right. The two others stayed out of the fight.”</p>

<p>“I see, so they were pacifists all the way. Sure… Did something, or rather someone, hit you too hard on the head, agent? What are you playing at?” Koop’s face started to look crimson on the display as she raised her voice again.</p>

<p>“Assistant Director, I think Agent Mercer was pointing out that the three attackers were acting well-organized and disciplined, and that was my impression as well,” Jake tried to defuse the situation.</p>

<p>“That’s true, Jake, but I meant it exactly how I said it. Those men were trained operatives, and they did restrain themselves today. That was no street mugging.”</p>

<p>“Did we get any ID on the attackers or their backup?” Koop asked Edwards, who had been silent during the last minutes.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid not, Assistant Director. Facial recognition yielded no results; they rented the van over a car-sharing app with a fake identity and paid in cryptocurrency. We got multiple DNA samples, probably from all passengers who used the car in the last few months. Forensics is still sorting through it all, but I’m not overly optimistic. We found their transport in a parking lot where the cameras conveniently had a malfunction,” Edwards explained.</p>

<p>Helen Koop looked frustrated. “And all the cameras Hartman passed were out of order as well?”</p>

<p>“No, ma’am.” Edwards looked pained now. “The flash grenade damaged the sensor of the closest camera, and the thick smoke also obscured the scene. Those were traffic and low-cost security cameras; they’re not very durable and don’t come with thermal imaging so that we couldn’t follow Hartman from the scene. We got no hits on other camera systems in the vicinity.”</p>

<p>“Agents, this is an epic fuck-up - you’ve got 48 hours to sort it out, or I will have your badges!”</p>

<p>The connection to Assistant Director Koop was terminated before anyone could respond. </p>

<hr />

<p>“Well, I have to give her that, this is an epic fuck-up,” Mercer said to Jake while he was getting another energy bar from the vending machine around the corner of the meeting room.</p>

<p>“Yeah, brother. But at least it proves the SENTINEL assessment, doesn’t it? I mean, the three guys weren’t there to get Hartman’s autograph or street mug him.” Jake answered while chewing his bar.</p>

<p>“This doesn’t prove anything beyond the fact that Hartman is a son of a bitch with more problems than we figured before. Probably bigger problems than SENTINEL or the FBI, for that matter.”</p>

<p>“Why can’t I shake the feeling there’s something you aren’t telling me, Mercer?”</p>

<p>“Well, I recognized the operatives.”</p>

<p>“You told us as much, Alex. Those were professionals, alright?” Lin rolled his eyes.</p>

<p>“No, listen to me, Jake. I have seen the team leader before. Actually, I served with him. He’s a tough bastard. Luke Brennan is a covert Marine operative, and if he’s after Joe Hartman, there’s something bigger at play here.” Mercer’s jaw tightened.</p>

<p>“Bigger than killing over 25 people with some AI shit in M Street?”</p>

<p>“Trust me, brother,” Mercer said and nodded, “much bigger.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
