<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>22. Sidelined</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="22-sidelined">22. Sidelined</h1>

<p>Emily Stone was sitting in front of her sandwich, lost in thought, at Logan, waiting for a flight back to Washington. No way was she taking the trip again by bus. Now that the flight ban had been lifted, she liked her chances on a waiting list far better. Although she hadn’t eaten much since breakfast, she wasn’t hungry.</p>

<p>When her phone chimed, she was pulled away from her ruminating. She had given her editor, Julia Sanchez, a quick update on her encounter with Joe and trusted in her that the protection of sources was still a thing in times when journalism had become an endangered species. She accepted the call.</p>

<p>“You picked up any news from Hartman?” Julia wasn’t wasting much time on niceties.</p>

<p>“No, Julia, I haven’t heard from him, but that wasn’t to be expected, was it?”</p>

<p>“Right. Interestingly enough, Mark found the most interesting information regarding your friend Joe.”</p>

<p>So, Mark Peterson again. Pushy and sensationalist, he quickly became Emily’s nemesis at the Post, but that seemed to get him favored by the editor-in-chief. Still, Julia had always shared Emily’s journalistic standards and had her back.</p>

<p>After a short pause, Julia continued.</p>

<p>“So Hartman was not only involved in the development of that FLOWS AI but suffered a childhood trauma from the death of his parents in a traffic accident. It seems like a strange coincidence, given the allegations against him.”</p>

<p>Emily didn’t like the direction in which this was going, not at all.</p>

<p>“Any thoughts on that, Emily?”</p>

<p>“I wonder where Mark got this information,” Emily answered slowly.</p>

<p>“And I wonder why you haven’t shared this information with me before? I mean, you were his girlfriend. Surely that had come up?” Julia’s voice had a sharp edge now.</p>

<p>“Honestly, this is a private matter, Julia…”</p>

<p>Julia interrupted her. “Stop. Stop right there, Emily. I expected much more from you. Hartman is a potential mass murderer, and the public has a right to know every little detail that explained why he became a terrorist.”</p>

<p>“No, Julia. Joe is … innocent unless proven guilty.” Emily was emotional now, her face glowing red. All the background chatter of the other waiting passengers seemed very distant now.</p>

<p>Julia sighed, and there was a moment of silence before she spoke again, softer this time. “You know how much I respect you and your work. But this is huge. We need results. The public wants answers. Nobody’s going to wait for us. You have to understand, this isn’t just about you or me. The stakes for the Post are incredibly high.”</p>

<p>Her expression hardened again. “You leave me no choice here, Emily. I can’t trust your judgment anymore. Listen to yourself, yelling at me like his defense attorney. You’re out - on administrative leave until further notice.”</p>

<p>“You can’t be serious!”</p>

<p>“The pressure is mounting here, Emily, and somethings got to give.”</p>

<p>“Oh, fuck off, Julia!” Emily gave her the finger and closed the connection.</p>

<hr />

<p>Twenty minutes later, Emily was still furious. She had left the waiting area and stood outside the airport to get some fresh air and gather her thoughts. She wouldn’t fly to Washington tonight. That was a given. She made a reservation for a room at a small, comfortable-looking Victorian guesthouse near Logan and considered her next steps.</p>

<p>Having her integrity questioned hurt. But was she still objective? She had to admit that she still had feelings for Joe, stronger than expected. But on the other hand, it felt like Joe had no allies except her and was framed and hunted by unknown powers. But maybe she was just self-delusional.</p>

<p>When she heard her phone chime again, she was grateful for the distraction from her thoughts until she looked at the display.</p>

<p>Somebody tried calling her on the secure messaging app that Joe had once installed on her phone, but she didn’t recognize the caller ID. Emily frowned but, after a moment of hesitation, accepted the call.</p>

<p>“Hi, Emmy. How are you?”</p>

<hr />

<p>Emily was relieved to see David Donnelly’s face on the display. She had always liked Joe’s mentor-turned-best friend and hoped he had news from the fugitive professor.</p>

<p>“Oh, David, actually, I feel like shit at the moment. I was fired more or less from the Post a few minutes ago, and I’m scared about what happened to Joe… Have you heard from him? Is he okay?”</p>

<p>“Yeah, there’s a lot to talk about. How about we see each other later today? Speaking in person is best,” David said, looking around. “There’s so much getting lost on a video call…”</p>

<p>Emily understood. It was a secure app, but encryption was only as good as the eavesdropper’s computing power to crack it.</p>

<p>“I would love to see you, Dave! How about we meet at the steps of the Great Dome in about an hour? I just have to check into my hotel room, I’m staying the night in Boston.”</p>

<p>“Sounds good. See you then,” David replied before ending the call.</p>

<p>Emily closed the messenger to hail a cab. When she looked up from her phone, a black car pulled beside her. The driver lowered the window.</p>

<p>“You need a ride, Ms Stone?”</p>

<p>Alarmed, Emily stepped back and nearly collided with a young man carrying a duffle bag. He was on his way to the terminal, his eyes on the screen of his tablet.</p>

<p>“Sorry, ma’am,” the car driver said apologetically, holding out his badge. “FBI. We want to have a quick chat.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Emily quickly gained her wits again. Talking to law enforcement was not unusual in her line of work, although in those cases, it was her interviewing the officials about cybercrimes and not vice versa.</p>

<p>“We can talk, but not in your car, only in public. What was your name again, Agent?”</p>

<p>“I’m Special Agent Mercer, and this is Special Agent Lin,” Mercer said, pointing to Jake in the seat next to him.</p>

<p>After they found seating in the spacious terminal, Emily quickly scanned the area. A large American flag hung from the ceiling near their seats. Some individuals walked around on the shiny floor, while others camped at the check-in counters. A Massachusetts State Police Trooper stood next to the escalator a few yards away, keeping an eye on the scene. This seemed safe enough for Emily, though she wasn’t expecting trouble from the two agents.</p>

<p>“Why is the FBI tracking me at the airport? Don’t you need a warrant to check security cameras to find me?” Emily asked, trying to sound casual.</p>

<p>“Not in a matter of national security, Ms. Stone. We need to talk about the attack in Georgetown,” Mercer replied, leaning forward.</p>

<p>“Let’s cut to the chase, Agent Mercer. I know that the FBI suspects Joe orchestrated the attack.”</p>

<p>“We appreciate your candor, Ms. Stone. So I’ll ask you directly: have you been in contact with Dr. Hartman since the attack?” Mercer asked as Jake Lin watched her closely.</p>

<p>Her smile didn’t reach her eyes. “I can’t say. Hypothetically, if I had been in contact with Joe Hartman, that would be covered by journalistic privilege. But I can tell you Joe has his flaws,” she said, her voice steady. “But he is no killer. He wants to save lives, not take them. He’s anything but violent. Regardless of what your AI says.”</p>

<p>“Frankly, Ms. Stone, I have my doubts too, but there has to be a reason why everything points to Hartman,” Alex said thoughtfully. Jake frowned, slowly turning to his partner.</p>

<p>“What Agent Mercer means,” Jake added slowly, “is that it would be in Dr. Hartman’s best interest to come forward as soon as possible.”</p>

<p>“So, hypothetically, give him my contact details if you see him. His next encounter with the FBI might not be as civilized as the last. Some trigger-happy guys in the HRT would rather shoot first and ask questions later. I’d prefer to hear Hartman’s side of the story first.”</p>

<p>Emily shivered at the thought of the FBI’s Hostage Rescue Team coming after Joe. The HRT was a military-level response, far more intense than your average SWAT team.</p>

<p>“I want the truth, Ms. Stone, and I think so do you,” Mercer said, handing her his card.</p>

<hr />

<p>“What in the flying fuck’s name was that, Alex?” Jake was hissing at Mercer after Emily Stone was out of sight.</p>

<p>“You know, if I’ve got that computer brain and that royal dick, Bolt, on one side and decent folks like Donnelly and Stone on the other side, then I can’t just ignore it. This Hartman story stinks,” Mercer said, while he clenched his fists.</p>

<p>“You are going to get us tarred and feathered, Alex,” Jake said, shaking his head in desperation.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
