<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>9. Spartan</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="9-spartan">9. Spartan</h1>

<p>Richard Clayton was sitting in his study with his service pistol lying field-stripped on the wooden desk. He was in the middle of cleaning his black Beretta, which had become a meditative ritual on nights over the years for him. His M9 was still the original issued to him when he got his commission; he never liked the lighter SIG Sauer M18 that replaced it for the Corps. Next to the pistol’s moving parts, cleaning kit, and a bottle of beer stood a framed picture on the desk: a pretty young woman wearing the Dress Blues of a Corps lieutenant.</p>

<p>The solid, dark wooden shelves were filled with books meticulously ordered by the subject and authors’ names. There were classics from Clausewitz to Sun Tzu in well-worn paperbacks with post-its sticking out, military history, and other subjects, from religion to physics. Richard Clayton’s quarters were in a red-brick, Victorian-style house with bright white trimmings and windows. If it wasn’t in Fort Myers, for many years now part of Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, only a short distance from the Pentagon, you could have mistaken it for the home of a scholar rather than a soldier.</p>

<p>When the security-hardened tablet signaled an incoming video call from his aide-de-camp, Clayton quickly cleaned his hands with a rag and accepted the call. Steven Monroe was still in his office in the Pentagon, which was not unusual for this job.</p>

<p>“Go for Clayton.”</p>

<p>“Sir, we’ve got an update from our FBI liaison. It seems the Bureau has identified a suspect for the incident in Georgetown. It is a single person: Joseph Hartman, an AI professor at MIT.”</p>

<p>“You’ve got to be kidding me. Hartman?”</p>

<p>“Affirmative, Sir. The FBI’s systems identified Doctor Hartman with high confidence. I understand they used an investigative AI called SENTINEL. My contact was surprised as well, as I noticed.”</p>

<p>“That’s probably the understatement of the century, Steven. I know Hartman from a research project he did for DARPA. A bit sissy for my taste, but smart nonetheless. And he got the FBI’s crosshairs because of their AI? Holy shit. I mean, he’s like a hardcore believer in artificial intelligence, you know?”</p>

<p>“The irony wasn’t lost on me, Sir,” Monroe said with an earnest face.</p>

<p>“Well, I can see that Hartman is related to all kinds of autonomous systems and even the military, but how he could fit into this clusterfuck is a mystery to me,” Clayton said, taking a swig from his beer, a very unusual sign of informality while speaking with subordinates.</p>

<p>After a moment of silence, Clayton gathered his thoughts: “Prepare an info package about Hartman with the latest updates for me, Steve. We have to act swiftly now.”</p>

<p>“Affirmative, it will be available in SecCloud in 10, Sir.”</p>

<p>“As you were, Captain.”</p>

<p>Over time, he had realized that things aren’t always what they seem and that people can do some pretty extreme stuff. So it wasn’t out of the question that the smug professor had his own dark secrets and went berserk. But as he went to grab another beer from the kitchen, he just couldn’t shake that feeling of disdain that had been his companion for a long time now. Another AI? Clayton was determined to find out either way.</p>

<hr />

<p>Nine minutes later, the info package appeared in Clayton’s SecCloud, the secure data cloud used by the U.S. military for file sharing. It contained the information Monroe had gathered from the FBI liaison, current information about Joe Hartman, including biometrics, and the encrypted tracking codes that allowed its user to follow Hartman on the networked cameras that Homeland had access to, officially or unofficially. As the commanding officer of the Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force “Hercules,” which included elements of the 75th Ranger Regiment and Naval Amphibious Task Force 51/5th Marine Expeditionary Brigade, Clayton had access to Homeland information related to cyber threats. Although it was a grey area under the Posse Comitatus Act, which limited the military&apos;s powers on U.S. soil, the change in unconventional warfare tactics in a networked society made it necessary to level the playing field. Now that the car incident was labeled an attack, the General had significantly more options in this case.</p>

<p>After briefly scanning its contents, Clayton opened a secure connection to Lucas ‘Luke’ Brennan, who was the commanding officer of a unit of covert Marine operatives code-named ‘Spartan’. This Marine captain was like an antithesis to Monroe, with a muscular build, rugged looks, and a non-regulation haircut complemented by a full brown beard. Brennan answered the call on a mobile device, with weights and what looked like other gym equipment visible in the background.</p>

<p>“General, go for Spartan actual.”</p>

<p>“Spartan One, I need you to bring in a civilian for questioning immediately. You have access to the information package on SecCloud. Be advised that law enforcement is expected to operate on the same target.”</p>

<p>“The ROE for this, General?” Brennan asked, referring to the Rules of Engagement that dictate the acceptable use of force during missions.</p>

<p>“Keep it smooth and clean, Captain: Avoid collateral damage by all means. You must remain covert. Use force only if you absolutely have to. How copy?”</p>

<p>“Good copy, Sir.”</p>

<p>“Brennan, I need this man questioned before the FBI gets a hold of him, and he can lawyer up. Time is of the essence. But technically, it’s nothing more than an invitation for a friendly chat, understood?”</p>

<p>“Wilco. We will extend an invitation to the party he can’t refuse, General.”</p>

<p>“Good hunting, Spartan,” Clayton closed the connection.</p>

<p>He set the tablet aside and turned back to the parts spread out on his desk. While assembling his Beretta, Richard Clayton was well aware that he was setting things in motion that could cost him his job and reputation. He pulled back the slide to check the weapon and inserted the magazine.</p>

<p>“Needs must,” he said, addressing the picture frame on his desk. And with that, he let the slide snap back into place with a satisfying metallic click.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
