<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>4. Newsroom</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="4-newsroom">4. Newsroom</h1>

<p>The Washington Post’s open-plan newsroom buzzed with energy. Quirky decorative elements—a small basketball hoop here, a toy tiger there—added a touch of playfulness to the otherwise serious and minimalist environment.</p>

<p>Emily Stone sat at her desk facing The Washington Post&apos;s iconic logo on the light wooden wall. The yellow earplugs she used to block out the constant noise were barely visible. She went through the notes scribbled into her small black notebook, a bit of an anachronism that helped her develop thoughts without being sucked into the ever-present stream of digital media. And honestly, her job was an anachronism itself in times of robot journalism.</p>

<p>She looked up at the screens on her desk, putting a strand of black hair behind her ear. The day was full of social media, fake media, and conspiracy theories, all in the wake of the autonomous cars wreaking havoc in Georgetown, killing at least two dozen people and leaving many more injured. Emily rubbed her temples, feeling the beginning of a headache as she scanned through the endless stream of posts. She leaned back in her chair, staring at the ceiling for a moment, trying to gather her thoughts.</p>

<p>As if sensing her frustration, her editor, Julia Sanchez, appeared behind her screen, pointing at her ears. Emily hurriedly plucked the pieces of noise-cancelling foam from her own. Julia&apos;s serious expression didn&apos;t bode well.</p>

<p>“How’s the story coming along, Emily?”</p>

<p>“Well, it’s not easy to cut through all the bullshit,” Emily replied, a little too defensively for her own taste.</p>

<p>“But that’s exactly our job, cutting through the bullshit, isn’t it? So, any ideas?”</p>

<p>Emily felt uncomfortable in her chair as she noticed her colleague Mark Peterson looking in their direction with a hint of a smile, raising his coffee mug in a mock toast. “Need some help, Stone?&quot; Mark&apos;s voice was annoyingly cheerful as he leaned over his desk in her direction.</p>

<p>Emily shot him a look, her lips pressing into a thin line. “What a prick,” she muttered, causing Julia to raise her brows.</p>

<p>“So, you get something solid, or I’ll pass the story to Mark. He’s just waiting for his chance.”</p>

<p>Emily looked wearily at Julia. “The whole thing is much too complex for Mark. We’re talking about a tragedy, not a games convention. There are chatbots out there that are much more sensible than him.”</p>

<p>Julia scrutinized her for a long moment and finally asked the question Emily was half expecting and fully dreading. “Are you still not talking to Hartman?”</p>

<p>Emily hadn’t spoken with Joe since she left his apartment eight weeks, two days, and two hours ago. She didn’t turn around then and wasn&apos;t planning to do so ever again. But it was also a question of professionalism. He was one of the leading experts in the field, and she couldn’t ignore him if she wanted to get the full picture. His research led to the creation of the Flexible Logistics Optimization and Wayfinding System, which controlled the flow of cars in major U.S. cities as its acronym FLOWS aptly suggested. The idea that the network might have caused the deadly chaos still wasn’t off the table at the moment.</p>

<p>So it boiled down to whether she could ignore her personal feelings and grab all the information she needed to write what promised to be the biggest story of her career or become a bystander and watch Mark get ahead of her. “Not going to happen,” she thought.</p>

<p>“I’ll call him,” Emily said with newfound resolve.</p>

<p>“There’s a good girl!” Julia looked surprised but eventually smiled and left Emily alone. </p>

<p>She opened her messenger app, scrolled down, and tapped Joe’s name.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
