<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>5. Pentagon</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="5-pentagon">5. Pentagon</h1>

<p>Major General Richard Clayton was sitting behind the large mahogany desk in his office in the Pentagon. The room had no natural light, and the muted colors added to the subdued atmosphere. The only colorful patches were the Stars and Stripes in the corner of the room, behind a small seating area with brown leather chairs and a two-seater, and the USMC flag, adorned with various campaign streamers. But he felt restless. Clayton would rather be in the field than doing desk work, especially today. Like many military men, he was fit for his age, his short-cropped grey hair still full. He was a man of action, not some desk jockey. Sometimes, he wished he had never been promoted to flag officer.</p>

<p>His aide, Captain Steven Monroe, continued to brief him on the Georgetown events.</p>

<p>“Law enforcement is currently unable to determine the reason for the malfunctions. Forensics is looking into the cars, but there isn’t much to learn from them after the EMP,” Monore said as he looked up from his tablet.</p>

<p>“What caused the EMP? Was it part of the attack?” Clayton asked, thinking about the electromagnetic pulse, or short EMP, a technology the military had used for decades. It could instantly destroy all electronic devices within its radius with a burst of electromagnetic energy, but it was entirely harmless to living beings. At least when those beings weren’t implanted with a pacemaker or else, Clayton thought.</p>

<p>“The pulse was delivered by an EMP grenade. A police officer used it to stop the cars.”</p>

<p>“Well, either it was a convenient way to purge the cars’ electronics or the officer should be awarded a medal for quick thinking.”</p>

<p>“Sir, without the grenade, we would probably have had many more casualties, so either way, the officer saved lives. And it wasn’t confirmed yet that this was an attack.”</p>

<p>“But our guy was among the casualties, and that’s the confirmation that makes me very skeptical of some freak event here, Steven.”</p>

<p>“Affirmative, Sir. From the initial reports, he was the first victim of the event.”</p>

<p>Clayton looked at the white panels on the ceiling of his office and let out a sigh. “So, to summarise: We have a corporate guy contacting a Corps flag officer with critical information about a matter of national security. That’s probably a first in the modern history of whistleblowing.” Clayton shook his head and continued. “We only know that it’s about the autonomous drone program, but he only wanted to talk when meeting you in person in a coffee shop on M Street. But while you were sitting in your civvies sipping some Italian coffee specialty I can’t even pronounce, waiting for him, our guy got crushed on the sidewalk by autonomous cars. To add insult to injury, some beat cop fried every digital device, which may as well have included any data our informer had with him. Is that about correct?”</p>

<p>His aide nodded curtly. “Yes, Sir. It’s not how I would put it in a press release, but it covers all the aspects we are currently aware of. Maybe we should add to your summary that the autonomous drone program is about to be rolled out in 72 hours, Sir,” Monroe replied dryly.</p>

<p>Mentioning the autonomous drone program made Clayton’s heart beat faster. At its core, it was a fully automated strike force capable of neutralizing an attacker, even if all command structures were destroyed. It served as a powerful deterrent, at least in theory. But the general had secretly hoped that the whistleblower had intel to at least delay the program’s start, if not stop it completely. </p>

<p>“Well, that’s what I call a class A cluster-fuck. See what else you can get from our FBI liaison, Captain. Dismissed.”</p>

<p>Upon the young captain’s departure, Clayton closed his eyes and took a few deep breaths. Compartmentalization was something he had learned early in his career. He needed to focus right now.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
