<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>7. Ramifications</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="7-ramifications">7. Ramifications</h1>

<p>Jason Bolt was sitting at his desk in his trademark baby-blue hoodie, his bleached blonde hair deliciously tousled. The room looked more like a 1980s video game parlor than the place where one of the richest men on the planet did business, at least in a traditional sense.</p>

<p>A huge neon sign buzzed with a low hum. It gave the room that distinct look that Bold loved, along with classic arcade machines, like PacMan and Space Invaders, and framed vintage Atari and Apple advertisements. Not that he had any personal experience with the last century, being born after the millennium, or even playing the old video games. It was about the carefully calculated message it conveyed about him: Here’s someone with a cheerful attitude, rooted in the golden age of founders who started to shape the world according to their wild ideas.</p>

<p>At least, that was what Bolt wanted to project. Anybody who got to know him closer knew that he was indeed a gambler, but not exactly a cheerful one, with strong ideas about not only shaping the world but pushing it in what he believed to be the right direction. Although this would fit the psychological profile of most successful tech founders, Bolt was one of the most influential, dominating the AI hardware industry for several years and expanding into other fields. He accepted no limits. Who says that the military couldn’t be disrupted if startups were not only shooting for the moon but flying people up there and back?</p>

<p>It was no surprise then that his voice was cold as steel, making the man on the screen at the other end of the conversation profoundly uncomfortable. “So, what do I make of this? It would be a bit of a setback if the project with the DoD were put on hold. That would have… ramifications.”</p>

<p>“We’re working on it, Jason. But the whole thing is a mess. Those killer cars in Georgetown—it was a massacre, and we don’t have any leads yet. The President is deeply concerned.” The middle-aged man adjusted his expensive-looking tie.</p>

<p>“So am I, so am I,” Jason said. He cocked his head slightly. “I see that your heart rate is spiking. There are other signs of stress. You should be careful. Things like this could get you killed in the end.”</p>

<p>The man on the screen swallowed hard but tried to look resolute nonetheless into the camera. “What do you suggest?”</p>

<p>“Well, I pay you to deliver solutions! So, here’s the deal: There will be a suspect. And you will crash hard down on him. Pin the cars on him, and then he has to go. People commit suicide in jails all the time or have an unfortunate encounter in the showers. Yeah, I like the shower thing. Move your fat ass and make it happen!”</p>

<p>A smile played around Jason’s lips as he saw the color drain from the man’s face on the screen. Before he could answer, Jason said cheerfully, “Have a nice day!” And the call ended.</p>

<p>Bolt grabbed a green smoothie from his desk, walked over to the large window, and sipped. He grimaced. It tasted like shit, he thought, some grounded algae or other unlucky sea dwellers being the main ingredient. But it was the latest cry in the longevity community. Needs must, he thought.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
