<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>37. Burning Wood</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="37-burning-wood">37. Burning Wood</h1>

<p>After Alex Mercer brought them down on the floor, David Donnelly lifted the steel trapdoor on the kitchen floor. Two heavy-duty gas struts held the heavy door in place while he ushered Emily, Joe, and Mercer down into what looked like a duct. The dark tunnel smelled musty. Mercer noticed the thick concrete slab beneath the seemingly ordinary hardwood floor as he passed through the opening. </p>

<p>The trapdoor slammed shut just as glass shattered above. David dove into the duct, joining the others already crawling forward.</p>

<p>Only a second later, they heard an explosion that was more of a sharp, muffled thump, followed by a deep rumble reflected and amplified in the confined space. Emily let out a stifled cry while Joe covered his head with his arms. The sand percolated through the narrow gaps between the small tunnel’s prefabbed concrete rings.</p>

<p>&quot;What the hell was that?&quot; Joe coughed, his flashlight beam cutting through the swirling dust.</p>

<p>&quot;Plastic explosives,&quot; Mercer replied, his voice tense. &quot;That’s some serious concrete, Donnelly.&quot;</p>

<p>David, nonplussed, replied, &quot;I’m an engineer. I like solid foundations. But I didn’t expect an air raid...&quot; </p>

<p>Emily sobbed, her eyes wide in terror. Joe tried to comfort her by extending his hand. “Everything’s going to be alright, Emmy.”</p>

<p>Mercer cut in, &quot;Don&apos;t bet on it. What&apos;s at the end of this duct, Donnelly?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;It leads to the lake, where I get fresh water and power. See those pipes and cables?&quot;</p>

<p>Mercer made a mental note to check David’s background more thoroughly once he had the chance.</p>

<p>There was some serious movement in the air now like it was sucked into the direction of the cabin. “Chimney effect, there’s some severe fire burning overhead. Move faster!” David urged them.</p>

<p>After a hundred meters, they arrived at the end of the tunnel, panting and covered in dust, the skin of their hands and knees raw from the rough concrete.</p>

<p>Joe straightened up in the manhole and carefully removed its cover. Looking around, he saw the glow of a fire where they had come from reflected in the ripples of the lake’s surface behind him.</p>

<p>Alex Mercer spoke up after they had taken cover behind the power station under its massive solar panels. “We need to get out of here fast.”</p>

<p>David pointed at a small motorboat tied to the jetty below. &quot;The boat&apos;s a no-go. We&apos;d be easy targets.&quot;</p>

<p>Mercer nodded. “We gonna walk. I’ll check the cabin. If I&apos;m not back in five minutes, leave without me.&quot;</p>

<p>David hesitated. &quot;I&apos;ll come with you. We need the laptop and Joe’s memory pack.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Get them to safety if I don&apos;t return,&quot; Mercer insisted, checking his Glock. </p>

<p>David looked after Mercer’s dark form, which disappeared in the shrubs, while the fire illuminated his face. Emily thought she saw a small tear rolling down the face of Joe’s old friend.</p>

<hr />

<p>Alex Mercer slowly edged forward to the blast zone around the cabin. The acrid smell of burnt plastic and organic material bit his lungs. The cabin itself was all but gone, as the construction had taken most of the kinetic energy of the explosion. The forces had quickly dissipated through the brittle wood. A hot fire had consumed the rest, and Mercer had to keep his distance from the glowing site billowing white smoke. It looked like the debris was actually molten.</p>

<p>Anything inside David’s house was nothing more than pieces of red-hot slack now. The laptop and the data were gone for good.</p>

<p>He saw no signs of movement in the vicinity. This looked like the work of suicide drones packed with some hefty explosives and an incendiary agent. The perimeter was covered with white powdery dust like it had just been snowing. Somebody had definitely wanted to make sure nobody and nothing survived the attack, leaving no evidence. The forensic teams would have a hard time determining if and how many people had been in the cabin.</p>

<p>The two cars parked next to the cabin didn’t look much better. His Mustang was just a warped and wrangled mess of steel, charred black from the burning petrol that had caught fire after the explosion. Donnelly’s shredded pickup was a total write-off. </p>

<p>“Shit,” Mercer said to himself as he turned to walk back to the power station where the others were waiting for him. This time, he would pass the soldering ruin on the other side, although he didn’t expect to find anything other than more destruction and burning trees.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe looked impatiently at his watch. “Five minutes are over now.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, let’s give him another minute and then return to the woods. The trees give us more protection than walking along the shore,” David answered.</p>

<p>“Why, that did work out pretty well for your cabin,” Joe said, immediately regretting it when David winced with a pained look.</p>

<p>“Sorry, buddy. I’m so sorry that I dragged you and Emily into this. What a fucking nightmare.”</p>

<p>Emily laid her hand on his shoulder. “It’s not your fault,” she said softly.</p>

<p>“I’m not so sure about that, Emmy,” Joe turned to her frowning.</p>

<hr />

<p>Alex Mercer was moving cautiously, constantly looking for new threats. The place would soon be swarming with law enforcement and firefighters. When he saw movement to his left, he immediately trained his gun on the black heap on the ground a few meters away.</p>

<p>Cautiously, Mercer approached the human form, limbs sprawled on the forest floor twitching uncontrollably. He knelt and started to pat down the figure, wearing a black long sleeve and dark jeans, when he noticed the heavy bleeding on the right leg. His hand was already glistening with the warm blood the jeans were soaked in.</p>

<p>He holstered his Glock and turned the man around carefully. He wasn’t surprised when he recognized Luke Brennan.</p>

<p>Mercer methodically searched Brennan’s tactical vest until he found a trauma kit to stop the bleeding. He quickly applied the tourniquet, starting to tighten it around Brennan&apos;s thigh to constrict the blood vessels and halt the blood flow. The Marine opened his eyes and tried to say something.</p>

<p>“Easy, Brennan, you will bleed out if I don’t stop this.”</p>

<p>It was too late to react when he heard a twig snapping behind him. Spinning his head around, he looked down the barrel of an M4 carbine trained to his face.</p>

<p>The man’s face was black from grime and soot. “Hands up!” </p>

<p>He had only seconds to decide his next move. Only a few turns with the tourniquet now.</p>

<p>“The tourniquet!” Mercer shouted desperately. </p>

<p>Another M4’s buttstock slammed violently into his temple. His world went black.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
