<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>1. Into the Chaos</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="1-into-the-chaos">1. Into the Chaos</h1>

<p>“Just one more block.” He squinted. The sun was shining, but Gideon Herzog wasn’t here for the weather. On Georgetown’s M Street, amidst the throng of tourists, he walked in a daze, like through a bad dream.</p>

<p>Electric cars glided silently, punctuated by the occasional growl of a gas engine. An old pickup roared by, making Herzog twitch. He raked his fingers through his curly brown hair, a nervous tic he couldn’t quite shake.</p>

<p>“Keep it together, Gideon,” he muttered under his breath.</p>

<p>A passerby glanced at him. “You okay, man?”</p>

<p>“Fine,” Gideon snapped, quickening his pace.</p>

<p>He knew the security cameras were watching, feeding images into facial recognition systems that didn’t just identify but predicted intent. An encounter with the cops or Homeland Security was the last thing he needed; he had an appointment to keep. So, he tried to keep his face relaxed. He checked the slim device in his pocket again, its cool surface soothing him.</p>

<p>Why was he doing this again? Was it his conscience? Fame? Or just stupidity? It had sounded like a good idea when he wrote that email. Well, there was no turning back now.</p>

<p>Gideon paused at a coffee shop, peering into the window like a man considering a caffeine fix. But he wasn’t studying the menu’s list of coffee delights. He was scanning reflections, searching for signs of a tail. It was a crude counter-surveillance trick he’d picked up from a popular YouTube channel devoted to urban survival. Not exactly CIA-level tradecraft, but it helped him feel in control. “You’ve got this,” he whispered to himself.</p>

<p>A man halted a few paces behind him, then turned toward the coffee shop. Muscular, smart glasses, casual clothes—was he watching him? Herzog tensed. The guy edged closer, eyes on the menu. It could be a cover. Gideon readied himself to bolt, cameras be damned.</p>

<p>“Just grab a coffee and leave,” he silently begged the stranger. As if he had heard him pleading, the man veered left and entered the shop. Gideon’s shoulders sagged in relief. He wasn’t cut out for this cloak-and-dagger shit. Once this was over, once he handed over the device, he’d vanish somewhere far-flung and offline. The thought almost made him smile.</p>

<p>His reprieve was short-lived. A blur in the window caught his eye—a black electric car suddenly accelerated, swerving onto the sidewalk. Panic surged as he bolted in the opposite direction, heart hammering. Too late. A robotaxi hurtled toward him. Time dilated as he watched, helpless. The collision was inevitable. The cab slammed into him with savage force, crushing him between the two vehicles. </p>

<p>Gideon Herzog’s life ended abruptly and brutally.</p>

<hr />

<p>Maria Hayes reveled in the ride, eyes closed, singing loudly to her favorite song blasting from the powerful loudspeakers. When using a robotaxi, she always opted for the immersive sound upgrade. The experience was worth a few bucks. She was now near her destination, meeting the girls in that trendy new coffee shop. Life was good.</p>

<p>Suddenly, the car lurched forward, pushed by an invisible hand. Her eyes widened in shock, trying to steady herself, frantically grabbing for the handle on the dash. The bewildered look on the face of a young man a few inches away was the last thing she saw before the airbags exploded. Her seatbelt yanked her back, violently, cutting into her shoulder and chest, leaving her gasping for breath.</p>

<p>When she opened her eyes again, disoriented from the impact, the world around had descended into chaos. More cars crashed into each other, the tormented electric motors whining loudly and glass shattering into thousands of pieces. Metal screeching on metal.</p>

<p>Suddenly, everything stopped, and there was an eerie silence as if somebody had pulled the plugs from all the cars.</p>

<p>A moment later, Maria registered the screams and shouts around her. Tears started streaming down her face. She tried to wipe them off, but her hands came back red. They were slick with blood, but not her own. The realization hit her like a punch to the gut, bile surging up from her stomach.</p>

<p>She leaned out of the shattered window, the acrid smell of smoke and burning rubber biting her nostrils. Maria heaved, her stomach convulsing, and vomited onto the asphalt. Looking up, she saw the street littered with debris and bodies, just moments before her consciousness shut down in shock.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
