<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>40. Obstacles</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="40-obstacles">40. Obstacles</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman, Emily Stone, and David Donnelly had been marching through the dark woods for hours. The sun was finally rising, casting a golden glow. Though tired, the warm light lifted their spirits.</p>

<p>&quot;One more mile,&quot; David said, grinning. &quot;Piece of cake from here.&quot;</p>

<p>Joe winced. He understood they were heading for another cabin belonging to David’s old friend, Peter McKenzie, a retired Harvard professor. Joe hoped the new hideout had online access for news updates; being out of touch multiplied his growing sense of losing control.</p>

<p>Emily looked forward to getting out of her sneakers, which weren’t suited for wilderness treks. The pain in her feet suggested nasty blisters, but she had stoically kept pace. Giving up wasn’t her style.</p>

<hr />

<p>Alex Mercer had spent the night in a conference room at Henderson Hall with Steven Monroe. They worked through all the information on Jason Bolt and the Autonomous Drone Continuity Program. A few hours on folding cots kept them fresh enough for the business ahead. Both men were professionals accustomed to high-stress environments.</p>

<p>&quot;So, our working theory,&quot; Monroe said, refilling their coffee cups. He pointed at the scribblings on the whiteboards. &quot;Bolt’s chips form a mesh network, each device relaying data. It&apos;s almost unbreakable. If the autonomous drone program is also compromised, there must be a way to communicate over larger distances, using either the drones’ base stations or a satellite uplink.&quot;</p>

<p>Mercer continued, &quot;This drone program is the DoD’s biggest single contract. It&apos;s likely the government was manipulated into cooperating. It’s not too hard once you can influence the government’s AI systems to help with its decision-making. We can&apos;t trust anyone outside our circle—the FBI, CIA, Homeland—all could be compromised.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;A large conspiracy is tough to keep under wraps. More people in the know mean higher exposure risk. Bolt&apos;s psychological profile suggests he’s the only one who has direct access to the hidden network,&quot; Monroe added.</p>

<p>&quot;Playing God,&quot; Mercer said, taking a deep breath.</p>

<p>&quot;We know he&apos;ll open a developer conference in Austin today at 1800. This is our last chance to get hold of him, just hours before the drone program goes live. If we fail, there’s no second chance,&quot; Mercer summarized another whiteboard.</p>

<p>&quot;Let&apos;s update the General,&quot; Monroe suggested.</p>

<hr />

<p>After Monroe’s and Mercer’s briefing, General Richard Clayton studied the whiteboards in silence.</p>

<p>&quot;Now, focus on the critical questions: how do we deactivate the backdoor? What’s Bolt’s trigger?</p>

<p>&quot;If a special key device is needed, we must get it under control. Bolt is the most likely candidate for having it. We need him under control, either way, because he’s the one who can pull the trigger on the drones.</p>

<p>“And to disable the backdoor, we need an expert like Joe Hartman, who is again on the loose. Where are Bolt and Hartman? If we don’t find both and neutralize Bolt by midnight, we’re probably screwed.”</p>

<p>&quot;Or what’s left of us, Sir,&quot; Monroe added dryly.</p>

<p>&quot;That&apos;s the spirit, Steven. Major, what are your next steps?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;A question nagged me while we worked on this, Sir. Why did the whistleblower set up a meeting with Steven? Why not drop the information anonymously? Exposing himself was risky. Your whistleblower learned it the hard way.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;We assumed he had something to hand over,&quot; Monroe answered thoughtfully. &quot;But an anonymous email would have been safer to send documents.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Unless he couldn’t. Maybe they were too large, or he had hardware samples. We need his personal effects. They should be booked as evidence,&quot; Mercer concluded.</p>

<p>&quot;But you don’t have access to the evidence anymore, Mercer. Is it a priority?&quot; Clayton asked skeptically.</p>

<p>&quot;With all due respect, Sir, we have too many unknowns about the backdoor. Maybe we can even neutralize the threat without going after Bolt. Let the authorities take care of him once the drones are safe.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;As I see it, Alex, it’s more efficient to go after the man, not his means. Take out Bolt, take out the network. You have until 1200 hours to discover what the whistleblower carried. Steven, find Hartman so we can understand what Mercer brings back. After that, we prepare a strike team to take Bolt down in his headquarters in Boston. Am I clear?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;Affirmative,&quot; Mercer and Monroe answered in unison and left Clayton’s office swiftly.</p>

<hr />

<p>&quot;Oh-kay,&quot; Joe Hartman said, looking around McKenzie’s cabin. &quot;This is even more spartan than yours, David.&quot; The small log cabin had a camping table, matching chairs, and a musty cot.</p>

<p>&quot;It&apos;s enough to get some rest, away from prying eyes,&quot; David replied, rummaging through a cupboard. He produced a jar of instant coffee and tossed it to Joe, who barely caught it. &quot;Make the coffee, Joe. I&apos;ll set up this...&quot; He triumphantly held up a flat box containing a StarConnect Nano system with an integrated solar panel. &quot;We should get online within the hour once the batteries charge.&quot; StartConnect was a way to get online in remote parts using a network of communication satellites.</p>

<p>&quot;I didn’t expect that,&quot; Emily said, inspecting her sore feet.</p>

<p>&quot;Peter wouldn’t miss the NFL playoffs or the Super Bowl. He needs internet for his tablet. This thing is as dumb as they come. No AI, just digital radio technology.&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;And did he leave his tablet here?&quot; Joe asked, inspecting steel cups hanging over the kitchen counter.</p>

<p>&quot;Not necessary,&quot; David answered, pointing to his smart glasses. &quot;When I said they were passive, I didn’t mean they can’t go active. They won’t connect with public networks, but we’ll get enough information with them.&quot;</p>

<p>David left to find a sunny spot for the satellite antenna. Joe turned to Emily. It was their first time alone after hours of hiking.</p>

<p>&quot;Doesn’t it strike you as odd that David not only digs secret escape tunnels but also hides stashes of guns and military stuff?&quot;</p>

<p>&quot;You should be thankful he’s so well prepared, Joe,&quot; Emily replied, glaring.</p>

<p>With a shrug, Joe stood up to find water for the coffee.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
