<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>16. Traumatized</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="16-traumatized">16. Traumatized</h1>

<p>On the surface, Maria Hayes looked unscathed by the events in Georgetown. Although she was at the center of the autonomous cars’ killing spree, she was at least physically unharmed. But the trauma she had suffered caused her much pain. She wasn’t able to go out of her apartment again, paralyzed by fear. </p>

<p>“Sweetheart, you need to get out of Washington. Leave that all behind. Come down to Austin. I can help you here,” Rebecca Hayes said to her daughter, who was looking away from her on the screen.</p>

<p>Professor Hayes was the head of the Immersive Learning Lab at the University of Texas in Austin and a trained psychologist. The Lab offered the latest technology in immersive virtual reality. At its core were sensory deprivation tanks with advanced brain projectors. Rebecca knew that those could not only be used for learning new skills but also for unlearning negative memories, reframing them to drain them of their power. The university had several research grants from the DoD and DARPA for training soldiers and investigating new ways to treat Post Traumatic Stress Disorders.</p>

<p>When Maria looked back at her mother, tears rolled down her cheeks.</p>

<p>“When I close my eyes, I see this young man, the fear. And the next second, he was gone.” Maria started sobbing, “I had his blood all over me, mommy.”</p>

<p>Rebecca was a striking woman in her fifties who usually exuded an air of calm professionalism. But now her emotions were clearly visible on her face, although she tried to hide them.</p>

<p>“Honey, let me see when I can get to Washington, and then I take you home with me, okay? You know, the commercial planes are still grounded, but I will find a way, baby.”</p>

<p>“I just want to go home, mommy.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Rebecca was furious. She had tried to find transportation to Washington for more than an hour without success. The killing car incident led to an immediate and complete shutdown of all vehicles solely operated by AI. Although the ban was soon lifted, the Federal Aviation Administration was the last to allow operations again. Remembering 9/11, this reaction was understandable and probably advisable, but this didn’t help her get Maria back.</p>

<p>Even if train tickets were available, it would take her two days to make the trip. Frustrated, she also considered driving up, but twenty-four hours behind the steering wheel would leave her too exhausted to take care of her daughter, and given her predicament, she couldn’t take Maria back with her in a car.</p>

<p>She swore. Rebecca Hayes wasn’t a violent person, but if she could get hold of those responsible for the killings and the other casualties, she would inflict so much pain on them, by God.</p>

<p>“Just one more try,” she told herself, tapping on her tablet again. She couldn’t believe her luck when a connection to Washington Dulles, tomorrow night, popped up. She said a silent prayer when she tried to book the flight.</p>

<p>Two minutes later, she looked at the ticket in her digital wallet.</p>

<p>“Mommy will be there soon, sweetheart,” she said, thinking about Maria.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
