<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>33. Tavern</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="33-tavern">33. Tavern</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman took in the scenery as David Donnelly found a place to park his truck. To his left stood the rustic &apos;Harbor Tavern&apos; with its dark shingled façade, while the &apos;Harbor Craft Brewery&apos; to its right had an industrial metal-clad exterior. The sky was dark and clear, making the welcomingly illuminated tavern even more inviting.</p>

<p>David slung the rucksack with his laptop over his shoulder. As both walked up the stairs made of stone to the dark wooden deck in the tavern’s front, the muted live music from the tavern already greeted them. Opening the door, the warm air laced with the smell of food and hops made Joe’s stomach growl. He wondered if they had time to get something warm to eat, eyeing the burgers being served at a table next to him.</p>

<p>They strode to the bar, and David heartily greeted the sturdy man polishing a beer mug.</p>

<p>“Hey there, Hank!”</p>

<p>“Why, good to see ya, Dave! How’s it goin’?”</p>

<p>&quot;Same old, just keeping busy.”</p>

<p>Both men shook hands. “This is my buddy Joe. We’ll have burgers in a few, but we’ll start with beers.”</p>

<p>Joe, who had briefly wondered what stories the dollar bills and Tavern Notes pinned to the wooden beams at the ceiling were telling, smiled at Hank and shook his hand, too. Looking around, he noticed that no patron seemed to wear smart glasses or even have their phones on the tables.</p>

<p>David pointed at the array of handwritten beer paddles hanging on the wooden panels behind the bar. “We take two Ken Browns. Can we take them out to the backyard?”</p>

<p>“Sure. It’s still open.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe and David sat at a metal table a few yards away from the porch that was bustling with patrons. Above the table, a large tree branched out, adorned with small, twinkling lights that provided a cozy glow.</p>

<p>David looked up from the laptop where he had set up a connection that bounced around the globe to cover their tracks. “You ready to talk to Emmy?”</p>

<p>“Yeah, let’s go.”</p>

<p>Joe&apos;s face brightened, seeing Emily on the screen. “Thank God, you’re safe,” she said, smiling at them.</p>

<p>“How about you, Emmy? How are you holding up?” Joe asked.</p>

<p>Emily hesitated a second. “I’m good, and I think I found something about the guys who were trying to kidnap you… You know, Joe, it’s the first time I remember you asking me how I feel...”</p>

<p>Joe froze, then blinked.</p>

<p>“Okay, kids, that’s wonderful and such, but maybe we could focus on the issues at hand now? I don’t want to sound harsh, but first things first, right?”</p>

<p>Emily should have been annoyed by David’s remarks, but she was happy that he steered them back on track.</p>

<p>“You’re right, Dave. I’m sorry, Joe. So, first things: Have you made any progress with the killing cars?”</p>

<p>“Actually, I have, and that’s one of the reasons we’re calling. The short version: Jason Bolt built a backdoor into his AI chips. His highly theoretical swarming technology is actually hidden in the latest chipsets, enabling the Georgetown car rampage.”</p>

<p>“Joe, if that is true, this is…” Emily stopped as the implications hit her.</p>

<p>“The ultimate nightmare for a society that runs on artificial intelligence,” David completed the sentence.</p>

<p>“Fuck,” Emily said, the color completely drained from her face. “This also means that nearly every important system could be compromised by now. If this goes public…”</p>

<p>“It just can’t,” Joe butted in. “It would cause the biggest panic ever.”</p>

<p>“There’s truth,” David added. “And it looks like Bolt used this technology to kill one guy and let the autonomous cars butcher everybody else just to cover it up.”</p>

<p>“You need to speak with Alex Mercer, one of the FBI agents. He seems open to the idea that you’re not responsible for Georgetown, Joe. He also said that the FBI would likely rather kill you than catch you to close the case quickly.”</p>

<p>“Did you speak with Mercer again? Did you get any other information? You mentioned the kidnappers?” David asked and frowned.</p>

<p>“Yes, he contacted me right after you left. He told me that the kidnappers’ team leader was a guy called Brennan. They are Marines, Special Operators. Mercer served with Brennan under General Richard Clayton.”</p>

<p>&quot;Who the heck is Clayton?&quot; Joe asked, feeling lost in the conversation.</p>

<p>“Clayton is Brennan’s boss and has likely ordered your kidnapping. What I found online were rumors that his daughter, who was also a Marine, had been killed by U.S. autonomous drones a year ago.”</p>

<p>“And Clayton thinks that I have also killed his daughter, or what?” Joe was visibly stirred up.</p>

<p>“Again, Joe, it would be best to talk to Alex Mercer. He also knows Clayton,” Emily pleaded with Joe.</p>

<p>“So he can shoot me on sight and get a medal both from the FBI and that Marine general? No fucking way!”</p>

<p>“Honestly, I think he is our best chance to save your neck,” David said, placing his hand on Joe’s shoulder. “And we need any help we can get to stop Bolt, this insane motherfucker.”</p>

<p>Joe sat with his fists clenched so tight that his knuckles had turned white. He was breathing heavily and had his eyes closed. He heard Emily’s voice from the laptop: “Please, Joe. Trust me. Trust us. We need to stop this before it totally spins out of control!”</p>

<p>In the silence that seemed to stretch forever, Emily’s phone pinged with a breaking news alert. After glancing at the message, her eyes went wide.</p>

<p>“Oh God, Joe has just been officially named as the terrorist responsible for the murders in Georgetown!”</p>

<p>“Fuck! Emmy, we need to go right now! Contact Mercer and tell him we’re ready to meet him at my cabin ASAP.”</p>

<p>David slammed the laptop shut and shook Joe. “Come on, Joe, go!”</p>

<p>Dragging Joe behind him, David noticed commotion inside the tavern.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
