<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>24. Swarm</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="24-swarm">24. Swarm</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman had been reviewing the footage of the traffic and security cameras on the memory pack, searching for Victim Zero, with whom the killing in M Street had started.</p>

<p>It was a gut-wrenching process. He found a young man with curly dark hair whose last minute began with looking into a coffee shop window. It was hard to tell if he was looking for somebody or studying the menu. When the first autonomous car suddenly swerved in his direction, he seemed to react quickly, as if expecting it, and started to run. This moment, somewhere between shock and determination, was caught in the screenshot Joe had made to isolate the face of the man. It wasn’t perfect, but at least most of him was visible. A fraction of a second later, when Joe scrubbed the videos forward, the man was hit by another car coming from the opposite direction. Victim Zero was—Joe was lacking a better word—quashed between the two cars with brute force.</p>

<p>The data dump he had received from the FBI didn’t include any personal information about the victims, only the video and data streams. His only chance to learn more about the first victim was to run his face through face recognition. This would only work if the man had left an image trace on social media. Unfortunately, Joe had no access to the government databases, which were pretty exhaustive since the CIA, NSA, and other three-letter agencies were also sourcing additional information from other countries. But all that was pretty academic, as Joe had no internet access.</p>

<p>It wasn’t exactly a dead end, but this was how far it would go now. He looked at the image of Victim Zero on the screen and asked softly: “What have you done to end this way?”</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe stood up and stretched his neck to the left and right, which responded with a series of light cracks. Sitting hunched over the keyboard for hours had made his upper body tense. He warmed up the baked beans a second time and added a bag of potato chips from David’s supplies to his meal. With another cup of coffee, he returned to the laptop.</p>

<p>All he had to work with right now was the memory pack, petabytes of data streams, and video files. He had already thoroughly reviewed the videos; now, he turned to the data. Joe rubbed his temples, the weight of the task pressing down on him. He was well aware that this would likely not explain the reason for Victim Zero’s death, at least not directly. So, instead, he focused on how the attack was delivered.</p>

<p>He took a deep breath and started jotting down his next steps while talking to himself:</p>

<p>“First, identify Connections: Extract all data streams from the cars involved in the attack. Look for any shared patterns or anomalies.</p>

<p>“Second, dig Deeper: Check the FLOWS data for any unusual communication between the central AI and the rogue cars.</p>

<p>“Third, spot the Differences: Compare the behaviors of the attacking cars against those that didn’t participate. What made them different?”</p>

<p>He looked out of the window and watched little patches of sunlight dancing on the ground. It wasn’t a very sophisticated plan, but at least it was a plan. Step by step, he would try to solve the mystery behind the attacks that had shocked America and thrown his life into chaos.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe&apos;s eyes burned from staring at the screen. Hours had passed, and he had checked off all three items on the list one by one. He leaned back in his chair. The results were sobering. </p>

<p>The data streams didn’t show much except that the cars’ AIs had suddenly sped up to crash into the next obstacle, whether it was another car or a pedestrian. But the data didn’t explain why they did this. The FLOWS data was clean; it just documented the central AI’s failed attempt to stop the rampaging cars remotely. Joe opened the simulation of the crashes again. After watching the ripple effect starting at Victim Zero again, he thought about how the spreading of the attacks reminded him of the circular waves you could watch dropping a stone into calm water. Or like dominoes knocking over their neighbors in a domino toppling display.</p>

<p>He nervously tapped with his pen on the table. Why was this happening? There had to be something.</p>

<p>Then it hit him. It wasn’t what was there, but what was missing. The way the malfunction propagated required a medium, a way of passing it from one car to another. If there was no data in the streams that explained this effect, it was either deliberately not tracked or transmitted in a hidden, unknown way.</p>

<p>He opened the cars’ hardware specifications and looked closer at the chipsets used for the onboard AI. “Interesting…” he muttered. All the cars involved in the killings were running on Bold Industries chipsets. This wasn’t a surprise given Bolt’s domination of the market for AI chips, but those were all of the latest generation.</p>

<p>Joe thought back to the evening with David in the bar in Boston, which seemed to be years ago, although it was only three days. They were talking about Jason. Joe was shaking his head when he remembered David saying Bolt’s self-organizing AI concepts were, what was the word now, “intriguing”.</p>

<p>The concept was built on the idea that AI chips in devices like phones, smart glasses, or home appliances could connect on demand without additional hardware to collaborate on complex tasks. Jason had been discussing this idea he called “swarming” with Joe as a potential topic for his PhD thesis years ago, and it was still on a theoretical level. Connecting the chips was difficult due to the necessary connection speed. Even bigger were the security concerns. At the end of the day, this would open a huge backdoor to critical hardware, like payment systems or… cars.</p>

<p>It all clicked. Bold Industries. Swarming AI. Vulnerable systems. “Jesus Fucking Christ,” Joe whispered, the full horror of the situation crashing down on him. The missing data wasn&apos;t a coincidence; it was the key. This was only the beginning.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
