<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>50. Assault</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="50-assault">50. Assault</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman stood on the Hilton’s balcony and breathed heavily. He had entered the hotel straight through the lobby. The spacious ceiling featured a series of undulating curves, subtly illuminated by recessed lighting. Joe tried to smile at the receptionists without moving too many muscles in his abused face. It felt like an eternity for the elevator doors to close.</p>

<p>When he finally stepped out again, he was beginning to feel better. He had encountered no security at all, and it seemed the changes to his face had been enough to fool the facial recognition. No alarm had been raised so far.</p>

<p>“Everything’s going too smoothly,” he thought when he stepped out on the balcony where the skywalk connected to the building. Squinting his eyes in the evening sun, he read the sign posted to the gate. It announced that the bridge was closed for the day, with its gate locked.</p>

<p>“Fuck,” Joe said as he took a closer look. A mesh enclosed the walkway, so there was no way to get onto it, even if he managed to get around the full-sized gate. He looked down fifty-five feet to the street level, and everything started to spin. Lightheadedly, he closed his eyes and tried to breathe deeply. He took a step back.</p>

<p>Joe looked at his watch. Five minutes had passed, and Mercer, Emily, and David would have started to engage the security guards at the loading bay.</p>

<p>Sweat started to run down his face, his heart racing.</p>

<p>The bridge was a highly engineered framework with numerous steel beams and girders arranged in a crisscross pattern. Thin steel mesh covered the walkway’s top. A strip on the sides, which looked sturdier, was like a screen to protect pedestrians from sun and rain.</p>

<p>Joe shook his head vigorously and turned around. This was impossible. He would need to go back down and find another way in. He felt the heavy M-84 grenades in his bag, tracing the holes in their cylindrical steel bodies with his sweaty fingers. A police siren was wailing nearby.</p>

<p>“Fuck, Fuck, Fuck!”</p>

<p>He rubbed his hands on his pants and looked around. Thankfully, he was still alone on the balcony. He went back to the skywalk and touched the white steel beams.</p>

<p>Tentatively, he hoisted himself on one of the lower beams. It felt like an eternity, but he climbed up to the small roof step after step.</p>

<p>Finally, he squatted on the first steel panel, which seemed even more flimsy than from below, creaking under his weight. </p>

<p>“Don’t look down, don’t look down, don’t look down,” he muttered.</p>

<p>“Hey! Stop!” Joe heard somebody yelling from the balcony.</p>

<p>Adrenalin surging through his system, Joe got up and started moving. Behind him, he heard a second voice calling for the hotel’s security.</p>

<p>He was scrambling now, his shoes barely gripping the slick steel panels. The grenades were clanging together as the bag began to swing wildly. His vision was reduced to a tunnel, focusing on the end of the sixty-foot-long bridge. Finally, he jumped down on the Convention Center’s balcony, hitting it hard.</p>

<p>But that didn’t stop Joe Hartman. He felt more alive than ever before. He dashed through the door and nearly ran over a kid with dyed hair and an oversized neon-colored sweater who was returning from the restrooms.</p>

<p>The security on the door, a burly man in black cargo pants and a hoodie with Bolt Industry’s logo emblazoned on the chest, held out a hand.</p>

<p>“Easy, pal!”</p>

<p>He looked Joe up and down, who was drenched in sweat, then at the kid in the neon sweater.</p>

<p>Joe took a deep breath, trying to steady his trembling hands and force a semblance of calm into his voice. “Look, this is going to be the keynote people will talk about in the years to come,” Joe panted, his eyes pleading, his voice strained with urgency and desperation.</p>

<p>The kid next to him nodded enthusiastically.</p>

<p>In a moment of leniency that the security guard would regret dearly in the next minutes, he stepped aside and opened the large door to the ballroom.</p>

<p>“You Bolt fanboys are just nuts,” he uttered under his breath.</p>

<hr />

<p>When Jason Bolt entered the ballroom, music pumping, the crowd roared. Like a rock concert or a championship box fight, although a bit nerdy if you looked closely enough. He narrowly passed Joe Hartman, who stood at the back of the 40,000-square-foot room, on his way to the stage. His entrance was displayed on the large holographic screens lining the front wall.</p>

<p>Joe felt hate welling up in him, like never before. This man had tried to kill him and his friends, perverted everything he believed in, and was about to plunge the world into chaos. He tightly clenched one of the grenades that featured a solid hex socket at the bottom. Joe had never been a violent man, but he felt the urge to jump at Bolt and wallop him with the flashbang.</p>

<p>Of course, he wouldn’t get far, with Bolt being protected by the FBI agents who walked around him in a diamond formation, scanning the crowd for threats. And not to forget the damn implant.</p>

<p>No, he would have to focus on the task. He would wait until Bolt arrived at the stage before he could explode the stun grenades; the service elevator down to the loading bay was right behind the large screens. Bolt was running late, a calculated move to raise the suspense in the room and on the screens. Telling from the cheering 4,000 or so people in the audience, it seemed to work well.</p>

<p>Nobody was paying attention to him. Joe fumbled slightly with the first flashbang, his hands shaking as he recalled Mercer’s brief instructions. He took a deep breath, steeling himself before tossing it into the room.</p>

<hr />

<p>Jake Lin kept an eye out for anything suspicious as they weaved through the crowd. People were getting out of their seats and clapping along to the powerful music. From a security standpoint, this was a nightmare. Although Bolt’s security lined the way up to the stage, Jason high-fived one of his screaming fans every now and then and came dangerously close to the masses.</p>

<p>The crowd control algorithms stopped working altogether, overwhelmed by the rambunctious audience. The moment he was eye-clicking away the notification on his smart glasses, he had an uncanny feeling, like his unconsciousness had registered something, but he couldn’t put his finger on it. Something wasn’t right. But the hustle and bustle around him and the steady movement towards the stage made it impossible for Jake to turn back and check out what had irritated him.</p>

<p>Probably someone in the crowd, but the facial recognition didn’t alert him. There was no time for brooding, so he focused again on his charge.</p>

<hr />

<p>Alex Mercer had positioned himself next to the service elevator and noticed two guards wearing the same high-visibility vest as the one he had taken from the kid in the security station. They didn’t look overly concerned as they strolled over to the station, probably doing a routine check.</p>

<p>Mercer cursed. What was Hartman doing? They couldn’t hold their position much longer, and the two guys were an imminent threat. Mercer tensed and reached instinctively for his gun but stopped short. Shooting them was out of the question. Too much noise from a tactical point of view. And they were just doing their job. Killing innocents didn’t sit right with Mercer. Never had.</p>

<p>But he couldn’t leave his position either. If Hartman finally exploded the stun grenades, things would move fast, and they wouldn’t get a second chance at Bolt.</p>

<p>As the two reached the station’s door, Mercer couldn’t do much more than hope that David Donnelly, waiting inside, would know what to do.</p>

<hr />

<p>Jason Bolt enjoyed every second of his glorious entrance to the ballroom. The audience’s emotions carried him up to the lectern. When the media called him “the tsar of artificial intelligence” in a report before the developer conference, he thought that was selling him short. Things didn’t turn out well for the last tsar, either.</p>

<p>No, he would unleash artificial intelligence, making it omnipresent and omniscient, continuously learning and growing without petty restrictions. All centered around his beautiful mind. The world would become Jason’s. Soon, very soon, he could let go of any restraint. He could already feel the data streams all around him, like glittering silver strands weaving through the air.</p>

<p>He flashed a bright smile at the camera drone before suddenly the room was engulfed in blinding light and the deafening sound of explosions. Panic erupted around him, and people screamed and ran for the doors.</p>

<p>“Move, move, move,” he heard a distant voice, disoriented from the impact of the M-84 stun grenades that Joe had thrown in his direction. Arms grabbed him, and he was dragged forward. Klaxons blared amidst the chaos, the sprinkler system releasing a steady stream of water. The screens on the walls flickered and went black. The air was thick with smoke, carrying the strong odors of sulfur and burning chemicals. His bodyguards violently shoved through the crowd, keeping their principal in the center, to the service elevator.</p>

<p>Travis Riggs, the special agent in charge, pressed his badge against the elevator panel, which flashed a red “Out of Order.” A moment later, the door opened, accepting the agent’s override, and the group piled in.</p>

<p>Riggs looked around as the doors closed and the elevator started to move down to the loading bay, doing a quick roll call. “Where’s Lin?” he asked, his ears still ringing from the explosion.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
