<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>2. Lecture</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="2-lecture">2. Lecture</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman smiled to himself. This was the place he loved the most. He was wandering confidently in front of his students in the great lecture hall of MIT’s Stata Center, stopping for effect occasionally. Hartman, in his early forties, was the kind of guy who seemed to become more handsome with age, according to most of his female—and also some male—colleagues. It showed that he was hitting the gym regularly to stay in shape. He preferred casual but sophisticated clothing with a European touch.</p>

<p>However, as he liked to put it, it was not his good looks that drew students to his lectures. He was an entertaining speaker who ensured that AI and cryptography remained popular subjects at MIT’s CSAIL, where he had been a tenured professor for the last three years.</p>

<p>His eyes scanned the red seat rows, momentarily stopping at faces to build rapport with his audience. Standing at the front of the room, he sought out students he could connect with to ensure he had their attention. Occasionally, he paused a little longer, hoping to elicit a smile from an attractive face. Today, luck was on his side; a beautiful, petite blonde student with bright, intelligent eyes was sitting in the first row. Their eyes locked in a way that suggested both might be interested in some extracurricular activities. </p>

<p>Joe enjoyed his lecture and was already anticipating his favorite part, which never failed to stir emotions. He paused, opened his arms as if he were about to deliver a sermon, and proclaimed, “It’s safe to say that artificial intelligence has surpassed humanity at this point. Only fools trust people more than machines today! Remember this if you have to make an important decision: Trust the data because data is the truth!”</p>

<p>He looked around expectantly. Joe was excited for a lively debate in class, but something was disturbingly wrong. The students had become agitated, but not in the way he had anticipated.</p>

<p>They were pointing fingers at their screens, and some of them appeared genuinely surprised while wearing their smart glasses. Their vacant look focused on the distance was unsettling for close onlookers, even after many years of the technology being commonplace. Hartman hated it when the attention in his lectures was stolen by the augmented reality overlays, but banning smart glasses from lectures was a fight lost several years ago.</p>

<p>“Hey, what’s going on, guys?” Joe asked while the murmurs and occasional shouts grew louder, spreading like wildfire. He was becoming increasingly irritated by the unexpected turn of events. He stepped forward while his watch started buzzing. Strange, he thought, as it was set to not disturb him with alerts.</p>

<p>The guy sitting next to the pretty girl in the front row held his tablet for Joe to see. It was a stream of chaotic scenes. Cars wreaking havoc on a busy street, like in a bad movie. Things were pretty chaotic, with fire, smoke, and debris flying everywhere. Joe shook his head. “So, let me get this straight: someone made an AI reel, and now all of you are going crazy, or what?”</p>

<p>“It’s all over the news, professor! This is happening, for real!” exclaimed the blonde student. Another student started sobbing, “I was video chatting with my brother in Georgetown when it went down. I saw exactly what he saw, and now he’s offline. Fuck!”</p>

<p>Hartman tapped on his watch. The alert had been a priority message that confirmed the death and destruction he had seen on the screens. The blood drained from his face, and he felt shaky. Barely audible, Joe muttered “Class dismissed” to himself as his students already scrambled out of the room, leaving him alone with his thoughts.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
