<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>6. Briefing</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="6-briefing">6. Briefing</h1>

<p>It was still dark outside when FBI agents Alex Mercer and Jake Lin were waiting for the briefing, each with a cup of too-thin coffee. Mercer’s eyes briefly rested on the large display on the wall, which showed the black and golden Washington Field Office logo with the stylized Capitol, amongst other landmarks, the bold letters WFO in the center, and next to it, the FBI crest. </p>

<p>“Agonizing about that logo again, Mercer?” Jake, his partner, asked, noticing his slight frown. </p>

<p>Mercer, a former Army Ranger, couldn’t help but find the WFO logo more fitting for a sightseeing agency than law enforcement. But it was a minor annoyance compared to other challenges of civilian life he had to navigate in the last years after leaving the army. </p>

<p>“Nah, it’s about what we’ll get to listen to. I heard that we’ll get a lecture about AI instead of doing our work.”</p>

<p>“You mean that Hartman character? Uh-huh, that’s going to be really entertaining. But then again, we’re talking about autonomous cars killing people in the streets, so if he can shed some light on what went wrong with their little silicone brains, it might actually be helpful.”</p>

<p>“I doubt that, Jake,” Mercer said as he scanned the bustling room, filling with agents and officers from various agencies, including some suits he couldn’t place.</p>

<p>As Assistant Director in Charge Helen Koop stepped up to the lantern, the noise died in the room. “Alright, ladies and gentlemen, let’s get going,” Koop said as she started the presentation. After the current statistics of death and destruction were shown in clean and cold figures, a 3D simulation of the events augmented with real footage followed, leaving more than one participant with stirred emotions.</p>

<p>“Looks more like a suicide attack in some hellhole than Boston,” Mercer said, carefully registering all the details.</p>

<p>“We have Professor Joseph Hartman, PhD, from MIT here, who will give us additional information on AI-related aspects. Doctor Hartman and his team developed the Flexible Logistics Optimization and Wayfinding System that coordinates the autonomous cars in most major cities.”</p>

<p>“Well, that worked pretty well, obviously,” Mercer said to Lin as Joe went to the lectern.</p>

<p>“Thank you, Assistant Director. Ladies and gentlemen, let me clarify some aspects of our situation here. For starters, every theory I have seen on social media is just plain wrong,” Joe started his expert statement.</p>

<p>“At least the guy has no problems with his self-confidence,” Lin noticed, which made Mercer chuckle.</p>

<p>After a twenty-minute tour of the de force, from viruses to solar flares causing a malfunction, Joe came to an end and asked, “Any questions?”</p>

<p>Mercer raised his hand: “And what about the obvious, doctor? What about your system? Could it just have steered the cars in the wrong direction?”</p>

<p>“Well, Agent …”</p>

<p>“Mercer”</p>

<p>“Agent Mercer, it’s not my system, and actually, it’s much more than that. FLOWS is a very capable AI designed to prevent accidents, not cause them. But it’s a valid question: Why did the cars do what they did with the system in place?”</p>

<p>“I’m glad you appreciate my question,” Mercer responded with a slightly ironic undertone, “but then, where do we find the answer to that question?”</p>

<p>“It’s in the data, Agent Mercer. But I’m pretty sure you will find human error as the source, not an AI failure.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Professor Hartman, for your valuable insights. And that’s exactly what we’re going to do,” Koop stepped in. “SENTINEL has been updated just yesterday with extensive new training data sets.”</p>

<p>Mercer rolled his eyes at the mention of the FBI’s investigative AI. “That’s exactly what we need: AIs investigating AIs,” he said to Jake, who silently nodded.</p>

<p>“So, with the new training data, we can be sure that we have a 99.9% unbiased response,” Koop said, addressing a point that has been a problem with such systems from their beginning. AIs respond based on their training data, so any biases or errors in the data are carried over to their reasoning. For example, if there is a high conviction rate among a certain group of people, the AI would tend to see members of this group as more likely to be a suspect.</p>

<p>“We’ll let SENTINEL crunch the data and see what we get,” Koop concluded. </p>

<p>Mercer watched Hartman and Koop leave the room with the other brass as the meeting ended.</p>

<p>“That was just a ton of bullshit, Jake.” </p>

<p>“You mean the good doctor? Yeah, a pretentious asshole, that one.”</p>

<p>“Couldn’t agree more, partner, but I’m more worried about the data crunching part. I wouldn’t be here today if I had always listened to the so-called experts. I&apos;d probably be coming home in a casket with a flag on it.”</p>

<p>“But you aren’t in some forsaken part of the world anymore fighting jihadists, Alex. You heard Koop, this is modern police work.”</p>

<p>Mercer’s jaw tightened. “Trust me, Jake, your instincts will save lives, including yours. Not those fancy algorithms.”</p>

<p>“And there’s truth,” Lin said as they left the briefing room.</p>

<hr />

<p>While waiting for Koop to finish with the other senior officials, Joe studied the WFO logo on the wall. He was always interested in aesthetics, and from a design perspective, he found it uncomfortably crude.</p>

<p>With a frown, he turned to the Assistant Director as she walked over to him.</p>

<p>“So, Doctor Hartman, thank you for narrowing the field today. We need to put our efforts into the most promising explanations here. The public pressure is mounting, and even POTUS is preparing to address the nation.”</p>

<p>“What message is the President going to deliver?” Joe asked, genuinely wondering himself.</p>

<p>“It’s about the trust in the systems, Doctor. But who am I telling this to? The country basically runs on AI, traffic, law enforcement, hospitals, and even the military. Have you seen the stock market’s reaction to yesterday? The SEC suspended technology stocks until tomorrow when the markets became too volatile. There are billions at stake here.”</p>

<p>“That’s a very good point. And most of the trading is also done by robots today, so there is that.”</p>

<p>Joe briefly wondered what the situation had done to his pension funds, but his train of thought was interrupted by the Assistant Director, who produced a slim silver memory pack from her jacket.</p>

<p>“Let me follow up on your point about finding the answers in the data. As I said, our forensic systems are currently running the analytics, but honestly, we haven’t seen any results yet. Maybe some glitch in the system after the upgrade. Anyhow, this is a complete data dump of all relevant systems. I’m told we’re talking about a few petabytes. It would even be more if the car’s memories hadn’t been wiped by the EMP.”</p>

<p>She held the device out to Joe, who hesitated to take it, his hands resting in his pants’ pockets.</p>

<p>“I’m not sure how I can help you with that.”</p>

<p>Helen Koop looked at him quizzically. “Well, I’m asking you to look into the data yourself. I’m sure you have some quantum supercomputers at MIT that put our humble systems to shame. And maybe notice things we overlook. It’s your area of expertise, if anything.”</p>

<p>With a sigh, Joe took the memory pack from Koop’s hand. “Well, I’ll see what we can do, Ms Koop. But it’s not like we have forensic tools on our servers, so no promises. Sorry,” Joe said, dropping the device in his light black day pack, which he was carrying casually over one shoulder.</p>

<p>“Thanks for trying anyway, Mr. Hartman. Remember, we need quick answers. Safe travels back to Boston!”</p>

<p>After they said their goodbyes, Assistant Director Koop replayed the conversation in her head. It was a bit strange, she thought, that the professor seemed less than enthusiastic about looking into the data - after his passionate statement just a few minutes ago in the briefing room. </p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
