<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>26. Killian Court</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="26-killian-court">26. Killian Court</h1>

<p>Emily Stone and David Donnelly walked slowly through Killian Court, the Great Dome behind them.</p>

<p>“We are being watched. Let’s pretend we are just having a casual chat,” David said, smiling at Emily.</p>

<p>“Yeah, the FBI tracked me down using Logan’s security cameras, and two agents intercepted me at the terminal curb. It’s probably them.”</p>

<p>“Actually, I don’t think that’s FBI we’re dealing with here. I also had a visit by two agents, and the guys following us are from a different team. Joe told you about the ones who tried to kidnap him?”</p>

<p>“You think the kidnappers are after us?” Emily was clearly alarmed, and her voice showed. Her dark hair pulled back in a tight ponytail, and she looked around nervously.</p>

<p>David put a hand on her shoulder and smiled again. “I think we’re safe in the public and the watchful eyes of the campus police. If they had wanted to make their move, they probably would have done so already. More likely, they hope we lead them to Joe.”</p>

<p>Emily frowned. “Please tell me that Joe is okay.”</p>

<p>“The last time I saw him, he was rattled and shaken but ok. Unless he used my Remington to shoot himself accidentally in the foot, he should be safe for now.”</p>

<p>“You gave him a gun?” Emily groaned.</p>

<p>“Well, a pump gun, technically. Remington 870, to be exact.”</p>

<p>Emily closed her eyes and took a deep breath. After exhaling through her mouth, she opened her eyes again. “Let me rephrase, Dave. Why, in God’s name, did you give Joe a pump gun?”</p>

<p>“Bears?”</p>

<p>Emily frowned again, and David quickly added, “Relax, Emily. He’s in my cabin up in Maine. No cameras there, no mobile networks, the wood is dense, so no satellite imagery, and the trees also give the drones a hard time.”</p>

<p>“You know, it’s no wonder you and Joe get along so well.”</p>

<p>“I’m not sure that’s a compliment,” David said with a broad smile.</p>

<p>“Go, figure,” Emily answered but weakly smiled back.</p>

<p>“All right, let’s share some notes, shall we? What did you make of the agents at the airport?”</p>

<p>Emily got the little black notebook from her bag and opened it. “Special Agents Alexander Mercer and Jake Lin. They didn’t ask much, but if I see Joe, I should tell him to contact them for his own sake. I don’t know if that was a good cop, bad cop act, but Agent Mercer seems to have his doubts about their AI coming up with Joe as the suspect.”</p>

<p>“That’s interesting,” David said thoughtfully. “Those two were the same ones who waited for me at home when I returned from the cabin. They asked about Joe’s past and seemed especially interested in his relationship with Jason Bolt.”</p>

<p>“What’s Bolt got to do with the car attacks?” Emily asked.</p>

<p>“That’s a very good question. Maybe Joe has an idea what this was about.”</p>

<p>After a short moment of silence, David smiled again. “The good thing is, I’m fairly sure they had no idea that Joe was hiding in my cabin. But then again, he was traveling there hidden under a tarp on my truck bed, and there was a shitload of rain coming down.”</p>

<p>“Under a tarp. On your truck bed.” Emily repeated slowly and raised her left eyebrow.</p>

<p>“Honestly, you don’t want to know, Emmy.”</p>

<p>“Jesus… Anyways, I’m really glad Joe has a friend like you in this mess,” Emily said and hugged David.</p>

<p>“And like you, Emmy. He needs you as much as me now.”</p>

<p>After a moment of hesitation, she nodded. “And I will be there.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“Do we have audio, Four?” Luke Brennan asked over the tactical network. Over the last few minutes, they followed Emily Stone and David Donnelly as they walked on Killian Court. They didn’t get much helpful intel from the drone’s video. It had to fly at a high altitude to avoid detection and its small size meant that its cameras and microphones were not designed for high-resolution spying. It was mainly used as a tactical tool to gather information about movement and position, which was still helpful for tracking people in crowded areas, like a park, but not much else.</p>

<p>“Sorry, boss, I can’t get a good fix on them,” Hanson replied.</p>

<p>“Okay, Two, have you got anything for me?”</p>

<p>“It looks like Donnelly said something that agitated Stone, but then they hugged, and everything seems good now,” Marty Decker answered.</p>

<p>“Well, happy to hear it worked out for them,” Brennan said sardonically.</p>

<p>He was quite sure that the two had been conferring about Hartman, and it was nagging him that they hadn’t been able to gather more intel so far.</p>

<p>Brennan had a sinking feeling that Hartman wouldn’t turn up at this meeting, and he had to decide how to proceed with the two targets.</p>

<hr />

<p>“So, what are our next steps?” Emily asked David.</p>

<p>“We need to dig deeper to find out what Bolt has to do with Georgetown. And I wouldn’t put it past him that he fed the FBI wrong information. There has to be a reason why the Feds asked about Joe’s parents.”</p>

<p>“But wouldn’t that be normal police work? Looking into the personal history of a suspect?”</p>

<p>“But they specifically asked about a childhood trauma, Emmy. We both know his loss drove him to build technology to avoid accidents. It’s quite a stretch to see a line here to become a mass murderer, using cars, of all things.</p>

<p>“And they also asked about Joe’s relationship with Bolt, so Jason is definitely part of the equation here.”</p>

<p>“If we both believe that Joe is innocent and was framed, the question is, who profits from this? My first instinct would be to think of the person or organization responsible for the killing cars. Or…”</p>

<p>“Watch out!” A voice yelled behind them, making both jump in shock.</p>

<p>A soccer ball zipped between them, only to be trapped by a young man running across the lawn from their right side.</p>

<p>Emily needed a moment to calm down before they started walking again.</p>

<p>“You’re the investigative journalist, Emmy. Find a motive to make sense of all of this.”</p>

<p>Emily nodded, took out her phone, and held it up as if to snap a selfie with David. </p>

<p>“Smile!”</p>

<p>However, when she tapped the button on the camera app, she took a picture of the people in front of her instead of the two of them.</p>

<p>“And I’m going to find out who those guys are who have been circling us since we started to walk,” she said, smiling amiably at David.</p>

<p>David’s smile widened. “That’s how we do it! I’m returning to the cabin to see how I can help Joe. But first, we must get rid of the pretty boys you just added to your photo library.”</p>

<p>He looked around and spotted the two campus police officers still on their beat.</p>

<p>“And I think I have a plan.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“Did she just take a picture of us? That sneaky bitch!” Luke Brennan was swearing under his breath.</p>

<p>“Should we get the phone, One?” Mendez asked his team leader.</p>

<p>“Nah, fuck it, she’ll have it uploaded to the cloud already, so it can be restored anyways, even if we delete it.”</p>

<p>“One, it looks like they approach the campus cops,” the voice of Hanson, Spartan Two, came urgently over the tactical network.</p>

<p>Brennan realized that his covert operation might become less than covert in a few moments and that the General wouldn’t be too happy about more publicity.</p>

<p>“Let’s get some distance between us and them. If they alarm the cops, it’s a tactical retreat,” he ordered his team over the network.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Excuse me, officers,” Emily smiled sweetly at the unformed campus cops.</p>

<p>The younger of the two smiled back. “How can we help you, ma’am?”</p>

<p>“I was wondering,” she said, turning to her side and pointing vaguely with her right hand toward Brennan and Mendez, “if you could take a picture of us?”</p>

<p>Both officers looked at each other, and the elder cop shrugged. “Sure thing, ma’am,” and Emily handed him her phone.</p>

<p>When Luke Brennan saw Emily presenting her phone to the cops, there was no time to lose. “All Spartan elements, retreat as low-key as possible. Recall the drone. We meet up at our rides,” he spoke softly, turned around, and walked toward Charles River.</p>

<p>“We wait until Donnelly’s car moves again and then follow him. I have the feeling he isn’t going home yet.”</p>

<p>“Ugh, let’s hope the old man is not just driving to his Bingo night,” Decker remarked, bored.</p>

<p>“Never underestimate an old hand like Donnelly, Two,” Brennan said soberly.</p>

<hr />

<p>“You’re sure this was your guy, this Brennan character?” Jake Lin asked Alex Mercer. “He didn’t show up on the face recognition.”</p>

<p>Brennan lowered his field glasses. “I have expected that much. He and his team are blanked out in the system. They are called covert operators for a reason.”</p>

<p>“Not so covert if you ask me. Even Stone and Donnelly made them.”</p>

<p>Mercer had to chuckle. “They don’t act like the smoothest operators, I give you that. Let’s return to the car and see where our two friends go next.” </p>

<p>Just as the two agents were on their way, Mercer’s phone chimed.</p>

<p>“Okay, this is unexpected,” he said, turning to Jake after seeing who was calling him.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
