<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>14. Travel</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="14-travel">14. Travel</h1>

<p>After they said their goodbyes, Joe Hartman was on the move again, wary of being recognized by cameras or cops. So, he kept his routine of avoiding both whenever possible. </p>

<p>Despite his efforts, after a few minutes, he felt watched. He slowly turned to the other side of the street, where a bearded man in a black hoodie and dark blue jeans stood. The man looked around suspiciously and spoke to somebody, likely over his dark-tinted smart glasses. Joe began to sweat. A robotaxi turned the corner and stopped next to the bearded stranger. Just as Joe prepared to break into a run, the man opened the passenger door of the cab, and an elderly grey-haired woman emerged. Both embraced, and Joe let out the breath he had held in a sigh. </p>

<p>After the bearded man’s encounter proved innocuous, Joe’s heart rate finally lowered. He decided to improve his disguise, smearing his ball cap, shirt, and already bruised face with muddy water from a puddle. Grabbing a discarded plastic cup, he assumed the role of a homeless person, knowing it was the best way to blend in—people tend to ignore the homeless.</p>

<p>The situation felt surreal. Just an hour ago, he was a respected MIT professor, and now, he was a fugitive dressed as a vagrant, hunted by the FBI and thugs with grenades. He shook his head. But where to go? If he wanted his life back, he needed a place to hide and to work out what had happened in the last 48 hours.</p>

<p>Joe was sure there was always a logical solution to every situation. Ideally, he would find not only a place but also some support. Emily had offered him as much, and if anything positive came out of this mess, she was talking to him again. But he couldn’t go with her in Washington. He was sure the FBI would have her on their radar sooner than later. Their history together was no secret. She’d be better off focusing on her research about the incident as a respected journalist without him hiding in her apartment and causing distractions.</p>

<p>Thinking about it, the ideal place would be remote enough without the city’s omnipresent cameras and with a sharp mind to help unravel this mystery. And nobody was sharper than David Donnelly.</p>

<p>There was still the problem of getting to the remote cabin. What helped him become invisible in the city wouldn’t help him to hitch a ride to rural Maine, and using a robotaxi or any public transportation was out of the question. </p>

<p>When was David leaving for his cabin? Joe tried to remember what David had said when they met in the bar, but he wasn’t sure. He had lost his smart glasses in Salem Street and had no other way to contact David, so the best option was to go to David’s home and see if he was still around.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe walked for two hours, carefully avoiding detection by taking numerous detours. His left calf throbbed with pain from the uneven height of his sneakers, but he couldn’t risk adjusting them. When he finally arrived in Somerville, rain began to fall. The street where David lived was lined with quaint, suburban-style houses. He rang David’s bell, but there was no answer. Seeing David’s pickup still in the driveway, he decided to wait but knew he couldn’t linger outside without drawing attention. Exhausted and aching, Joe noticed the truck bed covered with a tarp, the hydro-generator fixed next to the cabin. Desperate for rest, he climbed under the tarp and fell asleep to the rhythmic sound of the rain.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe was jerked from his dreamless sleep when David’s truck turned from the driveway into the street. The rain was still pouring heavily, so David entering and starting the truck hadn’t woken him up, but tumbling across the truck’s bed certainly did. With the adrenaline rushing through his veins again, he was suddenly wide awake. He grasped one of the straps David had used to tie down the generator. “David, stop the fucking car!” He yelled, but he had no chance of being heard with the heavy rain and muffled by the tarp. David turned up his car’s sound system and selected the playlist ‘Rock’n’Roots’, with Creedence Clearwater Revival kicking off the soundtrack for the three-hour drive.</p>

<p>When David merged into I-93, Joe had given up on yelling and kicking on the floor to make himself heard. The air streaming over the tarp had replaced the platter of rain. Joe concentrated on keeping himself fixated on the truck’s bed, trying to change his position occasionally to reduce the stress on his joints and muscles.</p>

<p>He had considered jumping out of the truck at the next stop, but he couldn’t know how long David might stop or where. He figured he’d probably get thrown off the bed on the highway and run over by a car behind him, so he forgot about that option. He improvised a makeshift harness using his daypack and the loose ends of the straps that tied down the generator, which provided him with some anchoring.</p>

<p>He was—literally—clinging for his life for what felt like hours, completely losing track of the time he had already endured this ordeal. When the car slowed down and rumpled over a dirt road, Joe was too battered to do anything more than hope that they would soon arrive at their destination.</p>

<hr />

<p>When the truck finally stopped, Joe barely registered the sound of the engine being turned off and the driver opening the door. He gingerly tried to move his arms and groaned as he worked on the daypack to get out of it. After all the pounding and straining, everything hurt like hell or was numb. He tried again and finally was able to get his right side free with a stifled cry of pain.</p>

<p>He was so focused on getting out of his harness that he was shocked when the tarp was suddenly yanked back: Joe found himself staring down the barrel of a gun for the second time today.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
