<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>44. Insights</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="44-insights">44. Insights</h1>

<p>“There are so many unknowns. It’s impossible to foresee what will happen if we go after Bolt,” Joe Hartman summarized after Alex Mercer and Captain Steven Monroe had updated him, Emily Stone, and David Donnelly about the situation.</p>

<p>“In my experience, if the waters are too muddy, fortune favors the bold,” Monroe said, earning bewildered looks.</p>

<p>“Yeah, let’s hope not,” David said, clapping the Marine’s shoulder.</p>

<p>“Sorry, no pun intended,” Monroe added quickly, with a shrug.</p>

<p>A sudden, firm knock on the door broke the uncomfortable silence.</p>

<p>“Come!” Monroe answered. Enrique Mendez entered and saluted. “Captain! Sergeant Mendez reporting with the requested items.”</p>

<p>Monroe returned the salute and took the day pack from the operative in civilian clothes. “Thank you, Sergeant. Dismissed.”</p>

<p>“I believe that’s for you, Alex,” Monroe handed the bag to Mercer after Mendez had left.</p>

<p>“I owe you one, Jake,” Mercer muttered as he took out the two evidence bags and placed them on the table.</p>

<p>“Okay, so these are the devices that Gideon Herzog, Victim One, had with him in Georgetown,” he explained.</p>

<p>“They won’t be much use then,” David said, eying the broken tablet. “The police used an EMP grenade to stop the cars, likely frying every circuit.”</p>

<p>“You can probably hear the sand trickling in the former silicon chips after being hit with that much energy,” he added, looking at Emily, who turned the bag with the memory pack in her hands.</p>

<p>“Do you keep your evidence in cold storage, Mercer?” she asked irritably. “If not, there’s something weird about this one.”</p>

<p>Mercer took it from her and whistled. “That’s weird, alright. Professors?” </p>

<p>Joe stepped forward and grabbed the bag. “Let’s find out,” he said, ripping the bag open while Emily stepped back.</p>

<p>He placed his hand on the small rectangular device, which looked identical to the one the FBI had given him two days ago.</p>

<p>“Some super-conductivity disperses the heat from your hand so fast that it remains cold to the touch. That’s definitely not the standard casing for a fifty-buck storage device.”</p>

<p>David eagerly gestured for Joe to hand over the package. “Yeah, that could be the effect of a nano-coating, shielding the contents from electromagnetic waves. Nanotechnology can make the casing extremely durable and resilient against heat and mechanical stress. I mean, look, it doesn’t even have a scratch,” David said as he held it next to the broken tablet.</p>

<p>“NEST,” Monroe said.</p>

<p>Joe turned to him. “Beg your pardon?”</p>

<p>“Nano-Enhanced Shielding Technology,” the Captain explained, “is a DARPA project. It’s primarily used for camouflage and scattering RADAR and LIDAR scans, but it’s also extremely durable and lightweight. An Israeli company won the competition, which caused some outrage in the American defense community.”</p>

<p>David smiled to himself and nodded. “Great engineering.”</p>

<p>“That’s very interesting, but what does it mean for our operation?” Mercer asked impatiently.</p>

<p>“That it’s immune against EMPs,” Emily rolled her eyes.</p>

<hr />

<p>Twenty minutes later, the mood had darkened again. The group watched with growing desperation as Joe’s and David’s futile attempts to find anything on the device continued.</p>

<p>Captain Monroe looked up at the analog clock over the room’s door. “It’s literally five before twelve, guys. The General will send a team after Bolt at noon, and they won’t be considerate.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, tell me about it,” Joe said without looking up from the screen.</p>

<p>“Not Brennan’s nice guys, Hartman. The shoot first, ask later branch, if you get my drift.”</p>

<p>“Doesn’t bother me, as long as the fucker gets what he deserves,” David replied, his eyes glued on the screen.</p>

<p>“Remember the discussion we had about unknowns? We don’t know how Bolt controls the back door and if there are contingencies if something happens to him. Like somebody else hitting the red button,” Emily said louder than she had planned.</p>

<p>She turned to Monroe and Mercer. “When they’re in the tunnel, they don’t care about anything.”</p>

<p>“Come again?” Monroe asked.</p>

<p>“They’re spaced out. Focused on programming stuff,” Emily explained.</p>

<p>“Why would he bring an empty memory pack to your meeting? With a super advanced hi-tech casing. It doesn’t make sense,” Mercer said.</p>

<p>“But he wouldn’t want to make it obvious either. Herzog must have been aware of the danger he was in. So something is hidden in there that he needed to be protected,” Emily said.</p>

<p>Monroe’s eyes rested on the broken tablet. “Maybe some kind of biometrical lock? Face recognition, fingerprint?”</p>

<p>“That would be a dead end, quite literally,” Mercer remarked dryly. “Herzog was severely disfigured, like most of the victims. The forensics had to run DNA tests on many of the deceased to identify them.”</p>

<p>Joe looked up from the screen. “DNA? Maybe a DNA lock. It’s expensive, but sequencing chips are small and fast enough. And whoever built this memory pack went to lengths to make it as safe as possible.”</p>

<p>“But where do we get Herzog’s DNA? Break into the coroner’s office?” Emily asked, looking at Joe.</p>

<p>“And it’s just a hypothesis, mind you,” Monroe added. “We’re running out of time.”</p>

<p>His tablet chimed, and he tapped the notification. “A team is on the way to Bolt’s headquarters now. ETA is 30 minutes.”</p>

<p>“This is going to be messy,” Mercer said, walking over to the small table with refreshments. “Coffee, anybody?”</p>

<p>“Why do I feel that you would rather be with the team after Bolt than here with us?” David asked.</p>

<p>“You’re not wrong. Sometimes, the simple solutions are the most effective ones. Taking down Bolt looks pretty straightforward.” Alex took a sip of the burnt coffee. </p>

<p>“Have you tried turning it off and on again?” he asked, which earned him a frown from Joe. “Seriously, can this be reset, maybe?”</p>

<p>David unplugged the device and turned it around. “Don’t see no switch here, Mercer. The device is shielded and hardened. The port is likely decoupled.” For emphasis, he hit the edge of the desk a few times with the memory pack.</p>

<p>“It’s inert. It’s just a brick of nano-coated emptiness,” Donnelly finally said, dropping the device back on the table.</p>

<p>Joe watched the outburst with fascination. “Maybe that’s the whole point of it. Something is missing.”</p>

<p>“Sorry, I’m not following,” David raised an eyebrow.</p>

<p>Joe took the shattered tablet and opened the evidence bag, carefully lifting it out. “Let’s assume for a moment that Herzog had access to the same technology as Bolt. An unknown mechanism for transmitting data between devices, undetectable by conventional scanners. What if this isn’t a shielding but a communications array made of a metamaterial?”</p>

<p>“Meta… what?” Monroe asked.</p>

<p>“A special antenna,” Emily answered, quoting an article she wrote a year ago about the technology.</p>

<p>David looked in horror at the device he had maltreated while Joe plugged it back into their computer.</p>

<p>“What if Herzog stashed the info that only a special device could access it? So it’s like a super fancy WiFi dongle or a modem for the swarming protocol, disguised as a memory pack?”</p>

<p>He held it over the tablet, moving it back and forth until a soft green glow signaled the memory pack-turned-modem had returned to life.</p>

<p>“Wow,” Joe muttered as his fingers moved fast over the keyboard, “we’re in.”</p>

<p>The group erupted into a small celebration, with Mercer and Monroe high-fiving and Emily hugging David. But not for long.</p>

<p>“Stop it! We need to stop it!” Joe suddenly yelled. “Monroe, we need to stop your team. Now! Just do it!”</p>

<p>The captain reacted quickly, years of military drills showing their effect. Quickly pulling out his phone, he tapped a button. &quot;Abort the mission. I repeat, abort, abort, abort!”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
