<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>29. Road Trip</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="29-road-trip">29. Road Trip</h1>

<p>“One, Three. Donnelly’s on the move again, northbound. How copy?” Decker asked over the network, hiding behind a large maple tree a few yards from David Donnelly’s driveway.</p>

<p>“Good copy, Three. It matches our tracking signal. Get back to the car; we will be rolling in two mikes,” Luke Brennan answered after looking at Mendez’s tablet with the tracking app.</p>

<p>“Let’s hope we get lucky tonight,” Hanson said enthusiastically from the backseat.</p>

<p>“So do I, Hanson, so do I,” Luke Brennan said without taking his eyes from the moving dot on the tablet.</p>

<hr />

<p>After an hour on the interstate to Maine, David Donnelly checked his mirrors again for anything suspicious, as he had done every two or three minutes since he left his driveway. The trees and fields sped past, along with the occasional traffic sign, just as they always did on his way to the cabin. But today, he was much more aware of his surroundings than on any other trip before. </p>

<p>When he saw the sign advertising the next service station, he veered to the right and left the interstate.</p>

<p>The parking lot held several pickup trucks like his—a small comfort. In rural America, this type of car was still king. No electric engines, no electronic bells and whistles, just enough horsepower and loading space.</p>

<p>He pulled up next to another dark Dodge Ram, similar to his. Upon closer inspection, it would be obvious that it was a different car, but for his purpose, it would be close enough.</p>

<p>David got out of his pickup and looked around. No surveillance cameras, just as he had remembered, and no other people in sight. He carried the metal box to the other car, every step crunching on the gravel. Gingerly he placed it under the tarp. If his calculations were right, whoever placed the trackers would be not too far away but not too close by to be seen either. Or at least, he hoped so.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Donnelly has stopped at a service station five clicks ahead of us. Do we go after him, One?” Mendez asked his team leader.</p>

<p>Brennan, still irked by the botched surveillance at Killian Court, sighed. That private investigator shit was a far cry from their usual behind-enemy-lines operations. </p>

<p>“We stop at the next pull-off for five mikes and see if he takes a leak or grabs a coffee and moves on. Speaking of which, unmount and use the time wisely, boys,” Brennan decided.</p>

<p>“Never miss a piss,” Hanson joked, heading for the nearest tree.</p>

<hr />

<p>David was starting to get nervous. The longer he stayed, the higher the chances that somebody came looking for him and his car, and his bluff would be called.</p>

<p>He was about to retrieve the box when he saw movement—a square-shouldered man in a dark jacket. David started the engine of his truck, ready to make for a run when the hazards of the pickup next to him blinked. Looking over, David saw the man making a beeline for the diver’s door. </p>

<p>He sighed when the truck beside him started moving. David quickly checked the mirrors before following him and blending back into the traffic on the interstate.</p>

<hr />

<p>Luke Brennan watched the red dot on the screen while they were on their way to the service station.</p>

<p>“He’s moving again. Fall back!”</p>

<hr />

<p>At the next rest area, David pulled over again. “Time to see if my little ruse has worked,” he said softly. It was a risky decision, but he didn’t want to lead any potential followers directly to his cabin and, consequently, to Joe.</p>

<p>He walked over to an oak tree, from which he had a good view of Interstate 95, and raised his field glasses. He wasn’t sure what to expect, so he watched the passing cars for the next ten minutes. A black SUV could have been what he was looking for, but with the tinted glasses, it was hard to tell anything about the passengers apart from the two severely looking guys in the front seats.</p>

<p>After waiting another 20 minutes and checking his car again for radio signals, he was satisfied enough to start his engine again and make his way to the cabin.</p>

<p>“I really hope this worked,” he mumbled as he turned on his car’s sound system and selected his favorite rock playlist, immediately raising his spirits.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Where are you heading?” Brennan asked himself as they neared Houlton, still behind Donnelly’s tracking signal.</p>

<p>He opened the secure communication app on his phone and selected Richard Clayton’s contact. The general answered within a few seconds. “Go for Clayton.”</p>

<p>“General, Spartan Actual. Do we have authorization to cross the Canadian border?”</p>

<p>Clayton’s answer was quick, as he had obviously followed the pursuit himself on the tracking app.</p>

<p>“Affirmative, Spartan. Reconnoiter the destination.”</p>

<p>“Roger that, Sir. Do we engage if we identify our target?”</p>

<p>“Avoid hassling the Canucks, Luke. I don’t want any diplomatic incidents. Everything else, use your own judgment.”</p>

<p>“Copy that, sir.”</p>

<p>After the call had ended, Luke Brennan briefly closed his eyes. This operation was getting more annoying by the minute. He really hoped to simplify the situation soon with some good old and honest-to-God fighting.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
