<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>10. Melee</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="10-melee">10. Melee</h1>

<p>Joe Hartman drank the rest of his early morning cappuccino in the kitchen. It was as minimalistic as the rest of his apartment, except for the Italian coffee machine that looked considerably more complicated than the smaller polished steel appliances that adorned the white and grey kitchen unit. Joe was not much of a cooking person himself. He preferred pre-made functional food that contained all amino acids, vitamins, and other nutrients in a well-balanced, personalized formula. Still, he fell in love with Italian coffee while spending a few months on an AI fellowship program at the Politecnico di Milano, one of Italy’s leading technical universities.</p>

<p>Despite a fitful night, his spirits were high, and he looked forward to seeing Emily Stone again. Her message was a welcome surprise, and he quickly agreed to meet her in person to discuss the car incident. That was typical for Emily, taking the trip from Washington to Boston to chat, for which most people would use a video call or a holo-conference. But she always preferred the real world over digital tools, something that contrasted her job as a technology journalist in a way that Joe found adorable, at least with some distance now. His feelings towards her were complicated, to say the least, but deep inside, he felt a strong desire to be with her - even if it was only for a background talk about autonomous cars.</p>

<p>Hartman took his daypack from a chair and checked himself in the mirror. He smiled. The sun was shining, and Joe was sure this would be a great day.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe’s apartment was on the second floor of the old brick-stone building on 125 Salem Street, which also hosted an Italian restaurant that would not open until noon. Years ago, when the narrow street was remodeled into a cafe zone, the parking spaces in front had been converted into an outdoor seating area. For Luke Brennan, Spartan One, this meant that a quick snatch of the professor without too much public attention wouldn’t be feasible when Hartman left his building. They would have to follow him along until a better opportunity presented itself.</p>

<p>“Spartan One, Spartan Four,” Brennan heard the voice of Jeremy Hanson, one of his team, over the earpiece.</p>

<p>“Go for Spartan One,” Brennan answered while scanning the street around him, a few meters north of Hartman’s apartment on the corner of Prince Street.</p>

<p>“Target is on the move, approaching your pos.”</p>

<p>“Understood, Five, keep eyes on the target. All other callsigns converge on my pos, nice and slow.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Alex Mercer and Jake Lin were sitting with two other agents from the Boston Field Office in an unmarked black SUV on Hanover Street less than two hundred yards away. While Jake was watching the pedestrians moving on the sunny sidewalk, Alex was focused on the tablet that showed several camera views of Salem Street. The plan was simple: Follow the suspect after leaving his apartment and arrest him on the street. Alex would have preferred to raid Hartman’s apartment last night and frog-march him away in his pajamas. Still, the BFO feared social media streams showing the FBI going Rambo in the lively Little Italy neighborhood. It was beyond Mercer why an arrest on the open street in the morning should be any more discreet. Still, Hartman’s personality analysis provided by SENTINEL indicated that he would not resist any public police action to save his face, so the decision was made. And maybe citizen journalists slept in, Mercer thought and chuckled softly.</p>

<p>“We have a fix, boys,” Mercer called out. A male in his 40s, wearing glasses and carrying a black day pack over his shoulder, was showing up on his tracking app, leaving 125 Salem Street. A red rectangle appeared over his face with the information “Hartman, Joseph R.—Arrest warrant active. Proceed with extreme caution.” in bold type right next to it.</p>

<p>“He’s on his way up north. Get us rolling, Jake!”</p>

<hr />

<p>While Joe was strolling up the street with upbeat music in his ears, he read the latest news in his smart glasses. He was used to dividing his attention between the world around him and whatever he watched with his glasses, and for what it was worth, every smart glass featured a collision detection algorithm that would warn him of any obstacles the glasses’ cameras captured.</p>

<p>So he was more than surprised when he noticed a strong hand on each of his shoulders. He spun around and saw two men right next to him.</p>

<p>“Doctor Hartman, we would like to have a word with you,” an athletically built man in dark cargo pants and t-shirt appeared before him. His face was obscured behind a full brown beard and dark shades.</p>

<hr />

<p><br/>“What the fuck?” Mercer muttered as he saw three bodies converge on Hartman on his tablet. The tracking AI couldn’t identify them yet, so a grey rectangle appeared around them, labeled Contact 1, 2, and 3. Hartman seemed to be ignorant of the situation.</p>

<p>“Overwatch, Mercer. We have a development here,” Mercer called Edwards, sitting in the e-chopper again, hoovering above the AO.</p>

<p>“I see it, Mercer, and I don’t like it. Get your asses over there!”</p>

<p>“You heard the man. Move, move, move!” Mercer shouted while the SUV’s doors were already flying open, disgorging four men in blue windbreakers, the bold yellow letters FBI widely visible on their backs.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe yanked off his smart glasses, irritated by the sudden approach. “What do you want from me? Who the hell are you?”</p>

<p>“Somebody wants to talk to you, Hartman, and we are the ones to make sure you make it to your appointment,” Luke Brennan said while looking Joe straight in the eye.</p>

<p>“I… don’t understand?!” Joe’s mind raced. One thing was sure: those guys weren’t friends of Emily, and they didn’t look like FBI either. Mugging on the open street was also unlikely with all the CCTV cameras around them. They knew exactly who he was, so something completely different was happening. But what?</p>

<p>Out of the corner of his eye, he saw movement. Looking behind the man blocking his way, he saw four figures running in his direction.</p>

<p>“Gotta move, Hartman,” Brennan said as the two other guys behind him grabbed his arms. Joe always took pride in his functional fitness training, but their grip remained strong as he tried to free himself. He struggled as his smart glasses flew onto the pavement and were crushed under the hiking boots of one of his assailants. A black van pulled up beside them on the street, and the men started to drag Hartman in its direction.</p>

<p>“Freeze, FBI!” Lin shouted as they closed the distance to Hartman and the three men who tried to kidnap the suspect.</p>

<p>Brennan turned in their direction and quickly evaluated the situation. His orders were clear, but he didn’t like the odds of this confrontation. It was a matter of seconds until other agents would appear on the scene.</p>

<p>“Two, Four, set him free,” he ordered Hanson and Mendez, Spartan Two, who had nearly wrestled Joe into the car. </p>

<p>Joe was relieved to be let go, the adrenaline pumping through his system. The FBI agents stopped and held their guns at the group; one of them pointed at him. “What’s going on, for fuck’s sake?” Joe cried out. He was even more confused when he realized that this was the agent he argued with yesterday, Mercer.</p>

<p>“Joseph Hartman, you are being placed under arrest on suspicion of multiple murders!”</p>

<p>The world started spinning around Joe. The situation was unreal. Pedestrians stopped in their tracks, capturing the scene on their smart glasses and phones and undoubtedly streaming it in real-time.</p>

<p>Brennan spoke softly but clearly through his team’s earpieces: “We need the target off the scene. Three, stun them.”</p>

<p>“Hey, you, stop the fuck talking,” Lin shouted in Brennan’s direction but noticed at the same moment a metallic clatter when something flew out of the van on the sidewalk. “Grenade!” he yelled in horror when he realized what he had just seen. The agents dived down to the ground.</p>

<p>With a bright flash and a loud boom, the M-84 grenade went off, filling the street with dark smoke. The operatives, protected by their smart glasses and noise-canceling earpieces, used the moment of disorientation to move toward their car, Brennan grabbing the stunned Hartman by his backpack.</p>

<p>Alex Mercer was the first to shrug off the effects of the flashbang grenade, years of relentless training kicking in. He jumped forward as he saw movement in the thick, acrid smoke. The situation was too chaotic for using his gun, especially with confused civilians around him, so he holstered his Glock and tried to get hold of the nearest kidnapper.</p>

<p>From the corner of his eyes, Brennan saw Mercer coming forward. He showed Joe aside just in time to block a blow aimed at his head. Brennan quickly reacted and countered with a blow of his own that Mercer ducked away by a few inches. Both men locked eyes for a moment.</p>

<p>“What the fuck,” Mercer thought before he realized that another gun was pointed straight at him by one of Brennan’s associates. He slowly raised his arms and waited for what came next. But the shot he expected never came as the three attackers jumped into the unmarked black van that sped away, clipping the pavement and barely missing a pair of onlookers.</p>

<p>When Alex Mercer looked around, he saw the other agents moving around with drawn guns, looking for targets and police cruisers rushing to the scene. His eyes scanned the scenery for new threats. The confrontation lasted only a few seconds but took some precious moments to process. </p>

<p>He had the feeling he was missing something important.</p>

<p>“Where the fuck is Hartman?”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
