<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>34. Chow</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="34-chow">34. Chow</h1>

<p>Captain Luke Brennan was getting frustrated. Of course, it was part of a Marine’s life, as it was for every soldier, to spend time on tasks with rather dubious outcomes. But he felt that he was out of his depth here. A seasoned operator, highly trained and hardened in combat, he was chasing professors through the streets of Boston and beyond, which, in the latter case, turned out to be a wild goose chase.</p>

<p>“Sixteen years in the Corps, and now I’m playing hide and seek with some eggheads,” he thought while gritting his teeth.</p>

<p>They had followed the signal of their tracker along Interstate 95 up to Houlton and, after crossing the Canadian border into New Brunswick, to a diner in Woodstock, where the driver took a break. But it turned out that the car wasn’t Donnelly’s pickup, and the driver was none of their targets. </p>

<p>Brennan had looked for himself at the truck and quickly discovered a metal box with two trackers attached to it in the loading area. He quickly removed both devices as it was clear that the professor had duped them like amateurs.</p>

<p>Back at their SUV, he had handed the devices over to Mendez, who gave them a good look. “That one ain’t ours, boss,”</p>

<p>“No kidding, Mendez. Disable it, will you? We will check it later on base. Maybe we will get some intel on who is also tracking Donnelly.”</p>

<p>With that, they turned around and made their way back to the U.S. General Clayton wasn’t too thrilled about the result of their trip either, which didn’t improve Brennan’s mood in the slightest.</p>

<hr />

<p>It was getting dark, and the last time the team had something to eat except energy bars and Kentone shots was many hours ago. Brennan knew that the situation also grated on the nerves of his Marines, so getting some quality grub was the obvious solution.</p>

<p>“Mendez, we’re taking a break; find some chow. Any good around here?”</p>

<p>Mendez looked up the diners and pubs on the tablet. “Several options, Cap. Either lobster rolls or hamburgers seem to be the popular around here.”</p>

<p>Brennan peered at the tablet and pointed to the image of a rusted anchor in a backyard. “Seems to be fitting for a bunch of hungry jarheads. We take this one.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Twenty minutes later, their black SUV was parked on the far side of the parking lot, filled with pickups and a few family cars.</p>

<p>Walking up the stone steps to the tavern, Marty Decker wistfully pointed to the building at the right. “They’re brewing their own beer here.”</p>

<p>“Hold your horses, Three. We’re keeping it dry—no beers while on the clock. Stay sharp, stay frosty.”</p>

<p>After stepping through the door, Brennan scanned the room for potential threats. He did not expect as much, but it was a deeply ingrained habit. The patrons were eclectic, just like the cars outside had indicated. He counted sixteen military-age males, but all seemed to mind their own business, nursing beers, and burgers.</p>

<p>The air was warm and smelled of savory fried food. The music, the laughter, and the dim light gave the tavern a rustic but noisy charm.</p>

<p>They found a corner table and settled in. Every operative turned their chair slightly to make sure their position was covered.</p>

<p>Luke Brennan looked at the bar, where a healthy-looking man in his sixties tended to the beers that were ordered freely, and noticed the dollar notes pinned to the wooden ceiling. He had seen strange customs around the world, and the U.S. had its fair share of them. Looking around, he felt like a stranger himself in his own country.</p>

<p>Brennan was thankful for being pulled out of his reverie when a waitress with auburn hair pulled into a ponytail, and a glint in her green eyes showed up to take their orders. So far, the tavern hasn’t disappointed them.</p>

<p>&quot;What can I get you, boys?&quot; the waitress asked, her smile faltering just a bit as she caught Brennan’s stern expression. After scribbling the orders on the small pad, she returned to the bar, Hanson’s eyes glued on her swinging hips.</p>

<p>Mendez kept an eye on the tablet and immediately saw the breaking news update on the screen. He tapped the message and jabbed his elbow in Brennan’s side when he saw what it was about. “Uhh, the manhunt has officially started, boss. Look, Hartman is wanted for the killings in Georgetown by the FBI.”</p>

<p>“Plastering his face all over social media ain’t making anything easier,” Brennan sighed.</p>

<p>“Decker, go check on our ride. We need to be ready to roll on short notice,” he added.</p>

<p>“What about my cheeseburger?” Decker mockingly scowled while getting up.</p>

<p>“Suck it up, Marine. We’ll make this one to-go for you; now move your lazy ass.”</p>

<p>As Decker walked to the door, Brennan noticed the barkeep holding up a phone and speaking with the waitress, who gestured at the screen. As the barkeep’s eyes went to the side, Brennan followed his gaze, which landed on the door to the outdoor area.</p>

<p>His eyes narrowed. Something was off here. He could feel it in his gut. It was the kind of tension that built up before the shit hit the fan.</p>

<p>“What the fuck is going on here?” Brennan asked as he got up and saw that the man behind the bar was now looking directly at him. The realization hit him like a hammer.</p>

<p>“Oh, shit. It’s Hartman. On me, move, move, move!” Brennan barked at his marines, who jumped up, sending chairs toppling down.</p>

<p>The life music suddenly stopped. While the families were startled, mothers pulling their children out of harm’s way, three of the sturdier-built local men sitting at the bar got up, moved in their direction, and blocked their path. “What’s wrong with you punks?” A muscular man with short-cropped hair held up his hand. </p>

<p>“Out of the way, motherfuckers!” Brennan pulled his Glock and shouldered through the Mainers to the door, his team following him.</p>

<p>When they spilled out into the backyard, there were only empty seats. Turning back to the tavern, Brennan saw that the locals were moving cautiously after them, the barkeep now sporting a Remington pump gun.</p>

<p>“To the car, double time!” Brennan ordered his team. </p>

<p>Brennan’s earpiece crackled to life while they ran around the brewery building.</p>

<p>“One, contact with Hartman! Should I pursue?” Decker asked.</p>

<p>“Wait one sec, we need to exfill! Fucking Mainiacs.”</p>

<p>Turning into the parking lot, he saw their SUV in the driveway, engine idling.</p>

<p>The doors flew open, and the Spartan operatives slid into their seats while Decker hit the gas, turning in the direction Donnelly and Hartman had taken just a minute ago.</p>

<p>Looking back, Brennan saw that the tavern patrons had decided to return to their beers rather than pursue them. One problem less.</p>

<p>Ahead, the taillights of Donnelly’s pickup truck appeared. “Fall back, Decker. We make it smooth this time. Chances are, they haven’t noticed us. Let’s not lose them.”</p>

<p>After a few miles, the pickup turned onto a dirt road. “Go on, Three, just after the road, then lights out. From here, we’ll stalk them.” Brennan smiled. It was hunting time.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
