<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>21. Waves</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="21-waves">21. Waves</h1>

<p>Frustrated, Joe Hartman shut the laptop he had been trying to work on with the data dump. He had to admit that he hadn’t made any progress over the last few hours. The memory pack included data from the traffic AI FLOWS, the telemetry streams captured from the cars, and video data from traffic cams in M Street. Its sheer multitude was overwhelming. He typically relied on an AI to analyze the data and work with it, but unfortunately, for many reasons, this wasn’t possible.</p>

<p>He stood from the sofa and walked over to the large bookshelf tucked under the stairwell, the wooden floor creaking softly. Over the years, physical textbooks became pretty uncommon, and their death blow came when search engines evolved into AI-powered conversational interfaces. Ask a specific question and get a tailored answer.</p>

<p>While sitting in their favorite bar, David once explained to Joe pointedly, “When the internet is flooded with AI hallucinations, libraries with paper books will be the only reliable source of information.” Joe also knew that David was not against using digital technology. He was far from it. David loved to work with complex systems but wanted to keep his mind fed with information and inspiration. Joe smiled, remembering this conversation, and took one of the classics, “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach,” from the shelf. </p>

<p>But a thought made him stop thumbing through the well-used volume. Most of the groundbreaking discoveries had been made without artificial intelligence. Actually, it was pen, paper, and hard thinking. He needed no internet for that. </p>

<p>With new-found enthusiasm, he decided to grab something to eat and tackle the data again.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe searched through every cabinet in David’s kitchen until he found a can of baked beans. He heated them up quickly and carried the steaming bowl over to the sturdy and well-worn wooden table where he had placed the laptop, a legal pad, and a set of Sharpies that Joe had found while searching for something edible.</p>

<p>He would have to apply first principles thinking here, breaking down complex problems into their most basic, foundational elements and building up from there.</p>

<p>He started by sketching the positions of the involved cars and the victims by reviewing the video feeds. After the first seconds of watching, he dropped his spoon into the bowl and pushed it away; his appetite was gone. Seeing the traffic camera recordings made it feel more real than the flashy videos in the newsfeeds that could as well have been algotrash action movies. People had died that day horribly, and this realization hit Joe with all the power of a sucker punch to his guts.</p>

<p>The images of his parent’s accident that he had kept contained for so long in the back of his mind came back to him with full force, and the emotions nearly overwhelmed him. He needed fresh air.</p>

<p>Joe opened the cabin door and stepped out on the small landing. He leaned back to the wall made of weathered horizontal logs, their colors ranging from dark brown to a faded grey-brown. His hand touched the rough surface of the wall. He closed his eyes and listened to the soothing sounds of the woodland.</p>

<p>But his ears picked up something else—nothing more than a soft whining, an artificial sound that didn’t belong there. He opened his eyes again and tried to locate its source. The dense trees surrounding the cabin made it harder, but he was certain it had come from above. He looked up, but the sound was gone, and there was nothing to see through the leaves. Was it a drone, or was he getting paranoid?</p>

<p>He waited for a couple of minutes, but the noise didn’t return. Maybe it was just one of David’s generators or a water pump. He remembered his encounter with the deer a few hours ago. He shouldn’t panic and get back to work. He looked around once more and walked back into the cabin.</p>

<hr />

<p>After jotting down the locations of the cars, the victims, and the timestamps of the collisions, he wasn’t sure what he was looking at. It seemed like utter chaos at first sight, but there was something else upon closer inspection.</p>

<p>He looked up the telemetry data of the involved cars to get their exact position and transferred his observations into a table. He reviewed the spreadsheet, scrutinizing each data point meticulously, but nothing stood out. Frustration welled up inside him. </p>

<p>Joe stood up and paced the room, the floorboards creaking under his feet. He started thinking aloud, “Okay, what am I missing? Where’s the pattern?” He stopped by the window, staring into the forest. Maybe it wasn’t about the individual cars but how they interacted with each other.</p>

<p>Returning to the table, Joe decided to visualize the data. He drew a rough grid on the legal pad using the Sharpies, plotting each car’s position and movement. He adjusted the positions multiple times, trying different configurations. He sighed and rubbed his eyes, exhaustion setting in.</p>

<p>He returned to the telemetry data, focusing on the timestamps. Using this, he started a visual simulation of the cars’ movements on his laptop. He slowed down the simulation and smoothed out the time intervals between the collisions.</p>

<p>“Holy shit!” Joe exclaimed when he clearly saw the pattern that his unconsciousness apparently had noticed before. He replayed the visualization again and again, but there was no doubt.</p>

<p>The incident started at one point when two cars converged on one victim and then spread like waves through the other cars involved until they suddenly stopped with the electromagnetic pulse the police officer had used to disable the cars.</p>

<p>There was a victim number zero, and the waves of destruction and death that rippled through M street weren’t random.</p>

<p>Joe’s mind formed a question that could be the start of a thread to unravel the mystery of the incident: Who was victim zero, with whom the killing started?</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
