<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>39. Loose Ends</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="39-loose-ends">39. Loose Ends</h1>

<p>Jack McBride glared at his tablet, the live video feeds from Maine only deepening his foul mood. He desperately needed a Scotch to take the edge off, but drinking in the office was never an option. He was a man of many vices, he had to admit to himself. But also very effective in hiding them. That’s what brought him here, to the desk of the Director of the FBI: always willing to do what has to be done.</p>

<p>The live video feeds on his tablet showed different views of the site in Maine where FBI agents and the Beavercreek PD were combing through the charred remains of a cabin in the woods. The forensic teams still had to find any evidence that Joe Hartman had been there when it blew up. This didn’t stop the SENTINEL widget on his screen from showing high confidence that the threat was neutralized. The investigative AI still was a black box to him, and McBride’s career wasn’t exactly rooted in law enforcement but rather in knowing the right things about the right people. But even for him, it was hard to believe that public enemy number one, Professor Joseph Hartman, accidentally killed himself with a few kilograms of C4 while tinkering with some IED, a homemade bomb.</p>

<p>It didn’t improve his disposition that a notification of an encrypted call popped up on his not-so-official phone, announcing Jason Bolt.</p>

<p>“I’m in the office,” he answered instead of a greeting when he accepted the call.</p>

<p>“And I thought you were already celebrating with some pretty girls covered in fairy dust. That would have explained why you forgot to thank me.”</p>

<p>McBride winced at the mention of ‘fairy dust,’ an exclusive designer drug that promised very vivid hallucinations without the hangover—fulfilling your fantasies without being addictive. He wasn’t sure about the latter, as he looked very much forward to his next trip.</p>

<p>“You mean the fuckup in Maine? Yeah, thanks a lot. I thought we agreed on you giving me the coordinates, and I’m taking care of the rest. There’s no trace of Hartman or his associates.”</p>

<p>“Well, I took the initiative. He went in and never came out again. That is good enough for me. Just leak the story on social media and keep an open eye. Either we’ve settled the matter, or we flush out Hartman. Every device we are on is listening and looking out for him, Donnelly, and Stone. And that’s a lot of devices. I mean, we were even on the memory pack he carried around. It took a bit until a drone picked up the signal, but I can live with that. Worst case, he’s a dead man walking, Jack.”</p>

<p>“I’m more concerned about the talking, not the walking, Jason. What if he or his journalist girlfriend starts spreading the news?”</p>

<p>“Ah, always the skeptic. We’re not amateurs like your NSA; I see and hear everything that floats through the networks. And I control most of them as well. Remember that, Jack.”</p>

<p>McBride flinched at the thinly veiled threat. “No need to remind me. I know what you’re capable of; believe me. Anything else?”</p>

<p>“Yep. That rogue agent Mercer of yours. He seems to be a bit tricky to contain. As far as I know, he hooked up with his old buddies, including that prick Clayton. May I suggest a course of action?”</p>

<p>“I would be delighted,” McBride replied, his voice dripping with sarcasm.</p>

<p>“He’s a bit bromantic, so he will contact his partner and speak his mind sooner than later. We need to know what he’s up to. Let Lin back into the game, but make sure we also have tabs on him.”</p>

<p>“Okay, we can do that.” The FBI’s director had to admit that Bolt had a point. Mercer was a loose cannonball and Lin might offer an angle on him.</p>

<p>“After the talking is done, you finish them off. It’s time to tie up loose ends. Understood? And then relax, Jack. By the way, did you know that fairy dust was discovered by one of our AI projects? See, I do make the world a better place,” Bolt grinned.</p>

<p>“Ah, fuck off, Jason.” McBride closed the connection with an angry tap on the screen. If the devil ever walked amongst us, Jason Bolt was a strong contender, he thought. And he had sold his soul a long time ago in exchange for secrets being kept and favors being done. </p>

<hr />

<p>When Jake Lin left the office of Deputy Director Helen Koop, he was carrying his badge and his Glock again. After a sleepless night with quite some discussions at home, he was ordered to see Koop in the early morning and expected the worst. But it went rather smoothly instead, at least at the surface. </p>

<p>He pondered the implications of being reinstated so quickly, realizing it was less about trust but necessity. The bureau obviously needed him, but he felt like a pawn moved around in a convoluted chess game when he thought about it.</p>

<p>Much of the conversation was centered around his partner, Alex Mercer, and speculation about why he had gone rogue. Jake had to admit that he wasn’t entirely sure what had driven Mercer in the last 24 hours but kept it to himself. Whatever it was, he trusted Alex had good reasons. Koop had talked about loyalty, and Jake was more sure than ever that he knew where he was standing.</p>

<p>When he left the FBI Field Office in Washington, the morning sun shone in a blue sky, and birds sang. It felt like they were mocking him.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
