<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>46. In the Air</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="46-in-the-air">46. In the Air</h1>

<p>Jason Bolt strode leisurely over the tarmac at Boston Logan International Airport to board the Boom Sonata hypersonic business jet, branded with the Bolt Industries logo. A flight attendant in a form-fitting uniform smiled brightly at him at the gangway.</p>

<p>“Welcome aboard, Jason,” greeted a young woman with a blonde pixie cut.</p>

<p>“Thanks, Carol. How’s the yoga certification coming along?”</p>

<p>She beamed. “Super happy with the course, thank you!”</p>

<p>As he stepped into the cabin, he had already forgotten her name and hobbies. The ephemeral information his implant provided wasn&apos;t worth memorizing. He had more important things on his mind.</p>

<p>The flight time was less than two hours at Mach 1.8. Enough time to review intel on Hartman and his crew and plan the next steps. Joe teaming up with the General was unlikely but not unpredicted. The probability they’d find information in Herzog’s stuff was low. It proved Gideon had been brilliant, albeit misguided. It’s a shame he had to shut him down. But no one is irreplaceable—except the exception that proves the rule. Bolt smiled.</p>

<p>He leaned back in the reclinable leather seat and selected a massage program, his insanely expensive German sneakers scattered on the plush floor. Austin was going to be fun, Bolt thought and closed his eyes.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe Hartman walked up the loading ramp of the C-17 Globemaster III at Joint Base Andrews, awe-struck by the vast, utilitarian space. The cargo bay was empty except for an ambulance in the center, painted white with green and yellow chevron striping and labeled “United States Army Ambulance Service.” Joe wondered where Clayton had requisitioned the vehicle, assuming the General had called in several favors for the operation on such short notice. Fold-down seats lined the bare metal walls, occupied by a handful of men in civilian clothing, strapped in with rifles secured beside them.</p>

<p>The loadmaster directed him to his seat next to Emily, Mercer, and David, pointing to the noise-canceling headsets plugged into the intercom system. “You’ll need those, sir, to stay in the loop,” the sergeant explained and moved on.</p>

<p>Captain Monroe, seated on the opposite side of the cargo bay, gave him a thumbs up. Joe felt alone in the enormous military plane as he fastened his unusually tight seatbelt.</p>

<p>The large ramp started to move upwards, the servos whining. With every inch, less daylight remained until the ramp locked in place, closing the bay.</p>

<p>“Lima Three One Seven, ready for takeoff. Be advised thunderstorms are in the forecast, so we will have a rough ride. Stand by for departure,” the pilot’s voice came loud and clear over the headsets. The hum of the engines grew louder, vibrating through his seat as the aircraft started taxiing. Joe looked around for barf bags but found none. He closed his eyes, trying to calm the queasiness in his stomach.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe heard Alex Mercer’s voice over the intercom a few minutes after takeoff. The plane’s steep curve didn&apos;t sit well with his stomach.</p>

<p>“Alright, guys, this is our channel. We’ll hear the flight crew’s announcements; otherwise, it’s private. So, how are we going to play this?” Mercer gestured at the six men beside Captain Monroe. “We have a snatch team, a shooter, and a spotter. Scott will shoot Bolt with a tranquilizer dart. We must rush the prick to the next station because the implant might trigger the failsafe anytime.”</p>

<p>David nodded. “And we have the Immersive Learning Lab at UT Austin. Two float tanks with VR projectors. Enough nanoparticle spray to let Bolt dream for a week. His brain may fry before that, though. The recommended maximum usage is sixty minutes every forty-eight hours.”</p>

<p>“Bolt’s well-being is the least of my concerns,” Joe said. “But if something triggers the implant, we’re screwed.”</p>

<p>Monroe looked serious. “So, we have a time limit. Maybe two hours if we&apos;re lucky. We can&apos;t waste a second. Once he&apos;s in the simulation, what’s the plan?”</p>

<p>“Get him to tell us how to disable his implant or the backdoor,” David said. “Not likely, I know.”</p>

<p>Emily shook her head. “I don’t see how we can get a psychopath like Bolt to cooperate.”</p>

<p>Joe remembered his conversation with General Clayton. “Every system has a flaw,” he said more to himself than the others. “And Jason, being Jason, maybe he’s the one.”</p>

<p>Mercer spoke again. “Hartman, you’re the AI expert and know him best. You’re working on making the simulation realistic and trying to interface with his implant with David, okay? Emily, you’re the one with words and analysis. You should be scripting the scenario for Bolt. Monroe handles logistics and liaises with the university. No offense.”</p>

<p>Monroe nodded. “None taken. Making things happen is my job. What about you?”</p>

<p>“I’ll ensure nobody interferes while we snatch him and he&apos;s in the tank. Mendez and his boys know how to handle a rifle, but sometimes you have to point them in the right direction,” he said, looking at Sergeant Mendez, who winked in return.</p>

<p>Joe took a deep breath. This wasn’t a plan; it was a rough sketch. They had one shot, and failure wasn’t an option.</p>

<hr />

<p>After playing with scenarios in his head, Jason Bolt made a decision that was not based on his implant&apos;s probabilities. The mental picture of a showdown in Austin, two gunslingers at noon, was much more exciting than playing it safe. Well, it wouldn’t be noon, and the Austin Convention Center wasn’t a place for tumbleweed, but having Hartman at gunpoint made up for this. And it was Texas, after all.</p>

<p>His intel was sketchy, as the U.S. military was tight-assed about using AI, thanks to old bastards like Clayton, but that was about to change. Circumstantial information like flight plans, passenger manifests, and Jake Lin’s surveillance indicated they were striking tonight. After Herzog’s device briefly connected with the network, he knew they probably accessed Gideon’s smuggled data.</p>

<p>He unlocked his tablet and tapped Jack McBride’s contact. A few moments later, the FBI Director appeared on the screen, looking worse than their last call.</p>

<p>“How are the preparations for Austin?” Bolt asked unceremoniously.</p>

<p>“The protection detail will meet you at the runway, Jason. The San Antonio Division is all over Austin. I still wonder if your own security wouldn’t be enough. This isn’t subtle.”</p>

<p>“Well, based on the taxes I paid last year, you’re all on my payroll anyway. And if it gets messy, you know, all this paperwork,” he rolled his eyes theatrically. “And if your guys finally take down Hartman, consider it a bonus. Eliminating public enemy number one should be worth it, right?”</p>

<p>“A public enemy of your own making.”</p>

<p>“That’s what I do, Jack. I create and destroy,” he said, tapping his right temple with his index finger. “All with the power of my mind. Almighty, if you will.”</p>

<p>The 5K video feed showed the glimmer in Jason’s eyes. Invisible to Joe, McBride’s hands started trembling under his desk as he realized Jason Bolt wasn’t joking.</p>

<p>Bolt closed the connection without goodbyes. He had another call to make for his next chess move. </p>

<p>He loved a good game but preferred tipping the odds in his favor.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
