<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>47. Arrested</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="47-arrested">47. Arrested</h1>

<p>Joe gripped his armrests, counting each agonizing second until landing. He hated flying, and the turbulent approach to Austin was a nightmare. Across the cargo bay, Marine Captain Steven Monroe&apos;s tense movements caught his eye as he retrieved his phone. Joe&apos;s unease deepened. Something was definitely wrong.</p>

<hr />

<p>“I owe you one, buddy,” General Richard Clayton said as he read the message on his private phone: “Cover Your Six.”</p>

<p>As midshipmen in Annapolis, this warning from his former roommate, Rear Admiral Leroy Harris, often meant trouble was on the horizon. Now, Harris’s position in the Department of Defence gave it a whole different quality. He hastily deleted the message and tapped out a warning to his aide. The moment he hit send, he could hear the commotion in the hallway. Clayton stood up and straightened his combat utility uniform, bracing for whatever was coming.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Listen up,” Monroe’s voice came on the team’s channel over the plane’s intercom. “We don’t have much time.”</p>

<p>“Nothing new,” David grunted and leaned forward.</p>

<p>“I just got a warning from the General. We’re going to have company on the ground,” Monroe continued. “Hartman, Mercer, you’re our best bet stopping Bolt. Honestly, there’s no chance this works, but we will try it anyway. We need to get you out of here.”</p>

<p>As Joe followed Monroe’s eyes, he realized with horror that the captain was looking at the ambulance. Alex Mercer was already releasing his seatbelt and motioned for Joe to do the same. When Joe put away the headphones, he was washed over by the engines’ rumbling noise and the plane’s rattling. Just as he stood, the plane violently lurched as it hit turbulence. Joe nearly crashed on the floor as he tripped over his feet—but caught himself at the last moment. Mercer stood beside him and gave him a small nod, which Joe returned. Swerving through the cargo bay, they covered the few paces to the ambulance. Joe opened the backdoor and climbed in, followed by Mercer, who closed the door with a thud, leaving most of the noise outside.</p>

<p>The confined space of the ambulance offered only one seat for an attendant next to the gurney. Three large black pelican cases were fixed to the bench on the other side of the ambulance. As the plane tilted to the left, both men had to hold on to the gurney straps to right themselves.</p>

<p>“We need to get strapped in for landing,” Mercer said, pushing past a dumbfounded Joe. Once in the attendant’s seat, he gestured at the gurney. “Make yourself comfortable.”</p>

<p>“You must be kidding!” Joe shook his head just as the next turbulence hit the plane.</p>

<p>Mercer just shrugged as he adjusted the seatbelt.</p>

<p>Gloomily, Joe lowered himself onto the gurney and was nearly thrown off the stretcher by another violent move of the Globemaster. He fastened the straps as well as he could and cursed silently.</p>

<p>In the cargo bay, Steven Monroe switched the intercom channel to the team of operators next to him. “Marines, you haven’t seen this.”</p>

<p>Scott, the shooter, looked up from his tablet. “No idea what you’re talking about, Cap.” The other marines just nodded, and Mendez stifled a bored yawn.</p>

<p>Monroe took a deep breath, anticipating what would wait for them once they were on the ground again.</p>

<hr />

<p>Clayton’s office door swung open with a firm push. Three armed military police entered the room, one of them a young lieutenant, followed by two agents in dark blue windbreakers with “FBI” stenciled in bold yellow letters. Finally, two plainclothes agents stepped in, wearing badges around their necks.</p>

<p>The older of the two suits approached the General and looked him sternly in the eyes.</p>

<p>&quot;General Richard Clayton, Department of Defense Criminal Investigation Service. You are under arrest for charges including aiding and abetting, obstruction of justice, and conspiracy. Lieutenant, read the General his rights.”</p>

<p>While the Lieutenant was visibly taut as he held the small plastic card on which he read the Miranda rights, one of the enlisted MPs stepped forward with a pair of handcuffs.</p>

<p>The tension in the room was palpable as everybody watched the general being taken into custody.</p>

<p>Clayton curtly nodded at the lieutenant and said, “Those won’t be necessary.”</p>

<p>The lieutenant looked at the DoD agent, who was obviously in charge of the operation, with an unspoken question. He gave a barely perceptible nod, and the two armed MPs lined up to Clayton’s left and right before the group moved out of the office.</p>

<hr />

<p>After the Globemaster had touched the ground, the pilot’s deep voice came over the intercom: “Heads up, we’re going to be boarded for inspection. Everybody remains seated. I repeat, everybody remains seated.”</p>

<p>Emily’s heart pounded in her ears, her anxiety building. David squeezed her hand and flashed an encouraging smile. She looked over to the Marines on the opposite side, who seemed pretty bored—except for Steven Monroe. The Captain was alert, his tension clearly visible.</p>

<p>When the plane stopped taxiing and the engines powered down, David lifted his headphones, and Emily followed his example. He leaned over to her. “Our best chance is to keep calm and look like we know what we’re doing. Feeling a bit wired up is okay, but don’t let them see your fear,” he said, winking at her.</p>

<p>The large ramp started to lower, rain patting heavily on the plane’s hull and the outside tarmac. Emily craned her neck to have a better look. She saw the soldiers surrounding the perimeter, wearing black tactical vests over their cammies with “Military Police” penciled in bold white letters on the front, their M4 carbines at the low ready. She felt like the time was slowing down, her trepidation rising with every breath. After everything she had been through over the last thirty-six hours, it looked like their escape would come to an end. She wondered how David could remain so calm in the presence of the soldiers outside.</p>

<p>Once the ramp stopped moving, a group of MPs started to march into the cargo bay, led by a master sergeant with a neatly trimmed brown mustache. Their heavy boots hitting the floor echoed through the confined space. They halted in front of Monroe. He rose slowly to signal he was posing no threat.</p>

<p>“Captain Monroe,” Master Sergeant Thomas Huffman saluted sharply.</p>

<p>“Master Sergeant,” Monroe returned the salute.</p>

<p>“Sir, I am here under direct orders of the Department of Defense Criminal Investigation Service. You are charged with aiding and abetting, obstruction of justice, and conspiracy. You are to be taken into custody effective immediately.”</p>

<p>The Master Sergeant gestured at the MPs who had followed him. “Secure the Captain’s service weapon and communications devices.”</p>

<p>After Monroe handed them over, the Master Sergeant continued to read him his rights. He then asked if he had fully understood.</p>

<p>“Affirmative,” Monroe answered without emotion in his voice.</p>

<p>Huffman addressed the other passengers. &quot;The rest of you, listen up. I&apos;m taking operational command here on the ground. Sergeant Mueller will escort you to the marked MP vehicles on the airfield. You will be transported to Camp Mabry, awaiting further instructions. Let&apos;s move out!”</p>

<p>David and Emily stayed in their seats as the others walked out of the ramp after confirming their orders. The master sergeant turned to them with a surprised look on their face.</p>

<p>“What about you two? Do you need an extra invitation?”</p>

<p>“With all due respect, Master Sergeant,” David said, “but I don’t think your orders apply to civilians.”</p>

<p>The Master Sergeant looked uneasy when he realized the others had already left the Cargomaster.</p>

<p>“Being on a military aircraft, nonetheless. What is your business here anyway?”</p>

<p>“I’m not allowed to disclose this to you, Master Sergeant. It’s definitely above your pay grade,” David replied.</p>

<p>Emily was aghast. What was going on here?</p>

<p>As a passionate poker player, David was not afraid to bluff but truly hoped this one wouldn’t be called. “Either you have something to charge us with, or…”</p>

<p>Master Sergeant Thomas Huffman was long enough in the military to know self-initiative is not always the best course of action. He took his tablet out of the cargo pocket of his pants and studied the file he had received half an hour ago. Unfortunately, his orders were a bit fuzzy, at least in the second part: arrest one Captain Monroe, establish command and control over the other personnel, and get them to Mabry. As he was thinking how that stubborn man in front of him might fit into this, with his unwavering air of authority that set off his instincts, he heard someone coming down the metal ladder from the flight deck. </p>

<p>“Hey, are you done here?” The voice of the buff Air Force major, whom Emily recognized from the intercom as the pilot, echoed through the hull.</p>

<p>“We have orders to refuel and return to Andrews in twenty, so make it snappy,” he continued as he approached the small group.</p>

<p>Huffman quickly considered his options. “Yes, Major, we’re done. I’ll leave you to attend to your freight.”</p>

<p>Before the baffled pilot could respond, the MP had turned around and made it down the ramp double time.</p>

<p>“If you and your crew could help us with the truck releases, we’ll be on our way in five minutes,” David said, gesturing at the ambulance, while Emily smiled warmly at the Air Force officer, still not believing what she had just witnessed.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Did you understand any of this?” Joe Hartman asked Alex Mercer, sitting on the gurney. There had only been muffled voices, so Mercer shook his head.</p>

<p>Suddenly, the metallic clank of holds being released was clearly audible in the ambulance, and the front doors opened and closed.</p>

<p>A beep and a flashing light next to the headset fixed on the wall right to Mercer’s seat made both men look in its direction.</p>

<p>“Go,” Mercer answered the incoming call, and after listening a few seconds, he ended it with “Affirmative.”</p>

<p>He looked at the puzzled Joe and said with a smile: “You better strap in again, Hartman.”</p>

<p>“No fucking way, Mercer.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
