<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>23. Watchers</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="23-watchers">23. Watchers</h1>

<p>“It’s pretty clever to meet at the airport, One,” Hanson said softly into his microphone as he watched Emily Stone walk to the curb of Terminal B.</p>

<p>“Why is that so, Five?” Luke Brennan asked back, sitting in a black SUV parked 100 yards away, looking through the optics of his binoculars. After it became clear that Mercer was on the FBI team, he decided to stay in the background and provide overwatch. It was a given that Mercer had also realized who he had fought with in the morning when Joe Hartman’s apprehension went sideways.</p>

<p>“A public space with enough uniforms around but also not so crowded that you can’t see who’s around. But, here it comes,” Hanson said, obviously enjoying himself, “in the middle of a no-drone zone.”</p>

<p>“You’re bright kid, five, I have to give you that. But tell me, did that look like a planned meeting?” Brennan answered while rolling his eyes. His team had tailed the FBI agents from the Boston field office, hoping to gather intel on Hartman’s whereabouts or at least stay close when the FBI made its move. </p>

<p>Enrique Medenz, sitting next to Brennan with a rugged tablet in his hands, turned to him. “We’ve got an ID on the female, boss. Emily Stone is a journalist for the Washington Post. Seems like she knows our target pretty well. Check this out,” showing Brennan the image search result: a photo of Joe and Emily at a summer party, smiling and close.</p>

<p>“One, the lady is hailing a cab,“ he heard Hanson’s voice in his earpiece. “Do we follow her or stick with the FBI guys?”</p>

<p>Brennan made a quick decision, his gaze lingering on the image. “We stick with the lady. Move out.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“So, what do we have? First, Mercer visited Bolt Industries, but we don’t know who they had been talking to,” Brennan started to recap the last hours.</p>

<p>“But we were able to stick the trackers to their ride,” Mendez nodded while driving behind the cab with a few cars between them.</p>

<p>“Yeah, that’s a plus. Then they went to Somerville and talked up David Donnelly, who obviously is also a buddy of our man Hartman. Then they legged it to Logan and caught Stone while she was about to leave.”</p>

<p>Brennan scratched his beard. “It looks like they are kicking some of Hartman’s friends and watching if they make a move. This tells me they have no idea where he is and hope that one of them is an associate of Hartman that leads them to him.”</p>

<p>“She’s getting off the cab, One,” he heard Mendez saying.</p>

<p>“That was just a short drive. Let’s see. Looks like she’s heading for the building with the dome structure. Three, you have eyes on her?”</p>

<p>“Roger, One. Following her,” Marty Decker, Spartan Three, replied.</p>

<p>“Four, deploy your toy,” Brennan said, hearing his Marines snickering to the tactical net.</p>

<p>“The drone, for Christ’s sake” Brennan clarified. </p>

<p>“Up in the air, One,” said Hanson, trying to keep his voice calm and just barely failing.</p>

<p>“Working just once with professionals,” Brennan mumbled as he got out of the car.</p>

<p>While following Emily Stone, Mendez updated Brennan with the information he read on his smart glasses: “This is the aptly named ‘Great Dome’, belonging to MIT.”</p>

<p>“Well, that’s the university where Hartman and Donnelly work. Maybe we get lucky,” Brennan answered while navigating the students and tourists roaming Killian Court.</p>

<p>“All callsigns, Spartan One. Move with caution. We don’t want to startle Stone.” Luke Brennan was acutely aware that he and his operatives did not blend in too well into the scenery, but if Emily Stone was to meet with Hartman, they had to be near and act swiftly and decisively. </p>

<p>“Any signs of the FBI, Four?”</p>

<p>“Negative, One. But I see two campus police walking the beat 100 meters south of your position.”</p>

<p>“Roger that, Five.” Brennan looked around the neatly maintained lawns, filled with young people lounging and the occasional frisbee player. It was not the best place to capture somebody unnoticed, and the egress posed a problem. Apart from the campus cops, it was hard to tell if FBI agents were on surveillance or if spotters had been positioned near the canopy trees that lined the court.</p>

<p>“One, we have movement on Donnelly’s car tracker,” Mendez informed him, standing right behind him, “heading south from his home. ETA to our position ten mikes.”</p>

<p>“Looks like the party is about to start. Three, status?” Brennan asked over the tactical network.</p>

<p>“Stone is sitting on the steps of the Dome and checks her phone about every other minute,” Decker answered softly, pretending to consult his phone himself, standing a few meters to her left.</p>

<hr />

<p>After ten minutes, the tracker stopped moving two blocks from the Great Dome. Brennan and his team scanned the surroundings for several minutes for signs of Donnelly or Hartman.</p>

<p>“I’ve got a positive face recognition for Donnelly. He’s moving around the court like he’s out for a walk, occasionally stopping and looking around,” Hanson announced over the network.</p>

<p>“I think he’s doing something like a counter-surveillance walk,” Brennan answered after watching Donnelly’s movements carefully. “Not a pro, but not bad either,” he decided.</p>

<p>Finally, David arrived at the Dome’s steps. He approached Emily, and they exchanged a few words.</p>

<p>“Did anybody get what they are talking about? Did you listen in, Three?” Brennan asked urgently.</p>

<p>“Negative, but they are now walking away together,” Decker replied.</p>

<p>“Let’s not lose them. Move, move, move!” Brennan ordered his team while he checked his concealed holster with a quick and well-practiced movement. </p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
