<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>45. Change of Plans</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="45-change-of-plans">45. Change of Plans</h1>

<p>General Richard Clayton, his index finger tapping impatiently on the desk, looked sternly at his aide. “So, you aborted the mission to neutralize Bolt. Why? What did you find?”</p>

<p>“Sir, Doctor Hartman was able to access the information Herzog carried with him to our meeting,” Captain Steven Monroe answered and looked over to Joe. “Maybe it’s best if he explains what he found.”</p>

<p>Joe inhaled sharply. “The short version is a dead man’s switch. The long version is that we have reason to believe Bolt is the only one able to access the backdoor.”</p>

<p>“Which sounds like a good thing, Doctor. Get Bolt and close the backdoor, right? Can’t we incapacitate him and short-wire the goddam switch?” Clayton interrupted him.</p>

<p>“The problem is, we are talking about a neural implant, General. Just a thought might be enough to activate whatever Bolt has planned. And if we understand it correctly, if the implant registers any change in his physiological state, it may also activate any preprogrammed contingencies.”</p>

<p>“Being dead counting as such a state change,” Monroe added helpfully.</p>

<p>“It might be possible to disconnect Bolt from the network, but honestly, I expect this would also trigger a reaction,” David said.</p>

<p>Clayton buried his face in his hands and groaned. “Let me get this right,” he said when he looked up again, “if the bastard slipped and broke his neck, the world as we know it could end?”</p>

<p>“That sums it up—the ultimate narcissistic middle finger,” Joe said. I’m not a specialist in neuroimplants, but they usually work both ways. They let the blind see and the deaf hear again. So he’s sending commands and getting input from the implant, making it even harder to get to him.”</p>

<p>“This is just fucking awesome,” Alex Mercer, who had been silent until now, swore.</p>

<p>“Alright, folks. The situation is messed up, so let’s see if we can fix it,” Joe said. “Every system has its flaws.”</p>

<p>Emily and David turned to Joe as one and looked surprised. “That’s pretty insightful for someone like you, Mr. AI-is-perfect,” Emily said, smiling.</p>

<p>“If there’s something I learned the hard way in the last twenty-four hours, it’s this: humans make technology, and so it’s as flawed as its creators,” Joe answered with a shrug.</p>

<p>“Have you considered the technology itself a problem, Hartman?” Clayton asked him with a hint of menace. “Artificial intelligence, where even its creators don’t know how it really works inside the box, autonomous drones, autonomous cars, brain implants, social media. They unravel the social fabric and transform people into mindless drones without guilt or conscience. Your technology is outright destructive.”</p>

<p>Joe pointed his finger at Clayton. “Is the rifle the problem or the man pulling its trigger? I’ll tell you what, you just can’t trust people. Digital technology is no more or less than a force multiplier for human decisions.”</p>

<p>“There are people you can trust, Joe,” Emily said, laying her hand on his arm.</p>

<p>“Maybe we can go back to the point where we were talking about unfucking the situation,” David said, stepping forward. “I think you’re both correct. There’s a flaw in the system—and technology, if you will—and it’s likely the human part. So, there needs to be some control in place. Let’s make the abstract tangible: How do we control the backdoor and lockout Bolt before we reach the point of no return?”</p>

<p>Alex Mercer rubbed his eyes. “Can we do the same thing as with the evidence bags? Trick the system into believing Bolt’s implant is a happy camper, faking its signal?”</p>

<p>“Good thinking, Alex. But for that to work, we must understand what the implant is transmitting. So, we must approach Bolt closely to gather sufficient data for building a model. If, and that’s a big if, the transmitter we have from Herzog can listen in on the conversation,” David said, slowly shaking his head. “It’s not like sniffing data packets in an unsecured WiFi network.”</p>

<p>“And if we do it the other way around?” Steven Monroe joined in. “Make Bolt’s brain or the implant believe everything is okay?”</p>

<p>“Sounds a bit like The Matrix,” Emily said thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“Come again?” Mercer asked, clearly not getting the reference.</p>

<p>“It’s a classic movie. The machines put people into pods to harvest their energy and let the humans think they are living their everyday lives to keep them happy. A big simulation. That’s The Matrix,” David explained.</p>

<p>“Didn’t Bolt believe we all live in a simulation?” Monroe asked.</p>

<p>“No, that was another one,” Joe said absentmindedly.</p>

<p>“But it could work, theoretically. Feeding his visual and auditory cortex with generated content, like a virtual reality game,” David concluded.</p>

<p>“Don’t forget the sensory inputs, like touch, temperature, muscle tension,” Joe added.</p>

<p>“Total Immersion,” Emily said, snapping her fingers. That’s a super-hyped startup building hyper-reality games. It puts people into a sensory deprivation tank, floating in darkness, and gets all those inputs fed directly into the brain. They do this with biodegradable nanoparticles that you must inhale through the nose, which travel the nerve pathways directly to the brain. They act as transmitters for the simulation.”</p>

<p>“Creepy,” Mercer shuddered.</p>

<p>“Sounds great, but how do we get Bolt into one of those tanks without triggering his implant’s failsafe?” Captain Monroe asked.</p>

<p>“Times were considerably easier when you just put a bullet in the bad guy’s brain and were done with it,” Clayton remarked after listening silently for the last few minutes. “But adapt and overcome. So we need to commandeer one of those tanks, the magic nasal spray, and a … game?”</p>

<p>“The SEALs have such tanks in their ‘Mind Gym,’ sir. If I recall correctly, SEAL Team Six uses them at the Naval Amphibious Base Coronado,” Monroe said. “And they use nanoparticles for enhanced learning and simulations.”</p>

<p>“Unfortunately, California is not exactly around the corner, Captain,” Clayton remarked.</p>

<p>David added, “But the University of Texas works closely with the DoD, right? They may have one or two in Austin; isn’t that where Bolt was going tonight?”</p>

<p>“Seems like our best shot. Monroe, check with the university and make sure we have a Globemaster on standby at Andrews. Get the team ready to deploy to Austin. And you four as well,” Clayton gestured firmly towards Mercer, Joe, David, and Emily as he spoke.</p>

<p>“Yeah, but what do we do once we have Bolt in the tank?” Joe asked Clayton, who was already on the move.</p>

<p>After a quick calculation in his mind, he smirked. “You’ll have two and a half hours in the air to figure it out, professor.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Rebecca Hayes paced her office, shaking her head in disbelief. The call with the polite but adamant Marine captain had just derailed her plans.</p>

<p>She should have been packing for her trip to Washington now, but this guy, Monroe, had just requisitioned her laboratory and her with it.</p>

<p>“It would be very unfortunate indeed if the General had to advise the Department of Defense not to renew your university’s contract,” he had said without leaving a doubt about his intentions.</p>

<p>Tears welled up in her face, more out of frustration than anything else. She had pleaded with him, telling him about Maria’s trauma and why she needed to be on this flight to Washington. Finally, he had conceded to promising her a ride on an Air Force plane later tonight. She wasn’t sure if she could trust the offer, but there weren’t many choices. If she lost her position at the university, she couldn’t help Maria anyway, as the young Marine had pointed out.</p>

<p>“That sun of a bitch just blackmailed me,” she swore to herself.</p>

<p>With a heavy sigh, she dropped into her chair behind her desk. She stared at the wall for a moment, gathering her thoughts. “Vesta, clear the pods’ schedule after six p.m. tonight and tell everybody the lab’s off-limits for a classified military experiment.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
