<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>11. Appointment</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="11-appointment">11. Appointment</h1>

<p>Emily Stone sat in a small Italian cafe near Boston’s Battery Wharf, waiting for Joe Hartman. The cafe had an industrial chic aesthetic, with white ductwork on the ceiling, warm track lighting, and dark hardwood floors. Black shelves adorned the white walls, displaying random colorful objects, including a sailing boat model and bright artwork. The mixture of modern and rustic elements seemed symbolic of Joe’s and Emily’s different personalities.</p>

<p>Over the last twenty minutes, she had sent Joe two messages, asking if something had come up, but received no reply. His status was offline so that she couldn&apos;t call him. Annoyed and sure that Joe had been distracted by a computational problem or a pretty student, Emily decided to leave. It was like a flashback to the final days of their relationship. She grabbed her notebook and bag, frustrated with herself for agreeing to meet him. The crowded bus trip from Washington through New York to Boston had been such a hassle, and it ended up being totally pointless.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe had come to terms with the fact that the last few minutes were not a nightmare but a very real problem. Three kidnappers had assaulted him, the FBI had tried to arrest him for murder, and chaos ensued. One of Joe’s skills, developed after losing his parents, was the ability to compartmentalize—a trait well-meaning acquaintances described as ‘mastering the art of not giving a fuck.’</p>

<p>When the FBI agents and his assailants started to fight, Joe saw an opportunity. Instead of panicking, he methodically focused on his next steps. He needed time and a place to understand what was happening.</p>

<p>“Who were the kidnappers? What was wrong with the FBI? What had he gotten himself into?” Asking these questions made his head spin, so he shelved them for the moment. First things first.</p>

<p>The smoke and turmoil allowed him to scramble away unnoticed. But he knew the FBI could quickly track him using the city’s camera network, so he took steps to avoid being seen by any cameras. Where he can’t avoid them, he had to fool the face recognition algorithms, a topic he covered in one of his courses.</p>

<p>So Joe pulled a Patriots ball cap he had taken from a confused bystander low over his face, bought a pair of broad-bridged sunglasses and a gaudy scarf from a street vendor, and altered his gait by removing the insole of his left sneaker. Finally, he stuffed his black jacket into his backpack and shifted it to his front, changing his silhouette. Without a phone or smart glasses, he couldn&apos;t be tracked through mobile networks, which also meant he couldn’t reach out for help.</p>

<p>With a plan forming in his mind, he walked away slowly and purposefully.</p>

<hr />

<p>After leaving the cafe, Emily went to the waterfront to clear her head. She was disappointed but not surprised by Joe. He was intelligent, charming, and successful but also unreliable and selfish. “That flaky jerk,” she thought to herself.</p>

<p>Looking out over the water, she watched a ferry cut through Boston Harbor, leaving a foamy wake. The city skyline and the bridges spanning the Charles River added to the picturesque view. The gentle lapping of waves momentarily distracted her from her thoughts.</p>

<p>Suddenly, she felt like she was being watched. Turning around, she saw people walking and talking on their smart glasses or earbuds—nothing out of the ordinary. Still, she couldn&apos;t shake the feeling.</p>

<p>Her phone buzzed in her pocket. It was probably Joe with an excuse she didn’t want to hear, so she ignored it. Regardless of what her editor thought, she would be writing a hell of a story about the car incident without Hartman. Lost in her thoughts, she was startled when a man appeared beside her.</p>

<p>“Hi, Emily,” he said softly.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
