<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>27. Prepping</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="27-prepping">27. Prepping</h1>

<p>David Donnelly quickly scanned the area for any sign of the men who had been watching him and Emily in Killian Court before unlocking his truck. Convinced that no one was around, he climbed into the vehicle and started the engine.</p>

<p>Driving through the streets of Boston, he tried to better understand who they were. He was pretty sure those guys were not law enforcement; they appeared more action-oriented and comfortable with direct physical interaction than with surveillance in academic or urban settings. They were professional nonetheless, moving efficiently and well-trained. It stood to reason that those were the same men who had tried to kidnap Joe earlier today. His money was on military operatives.</p>

<p>He checked the mirror to see if he could spot a tail but saw nothing suspicious. In times of ubiquitous camera-based surveillance, it was unnecessary to physically follow a car through a town&apos;s streets. Autonomous cars and cars with onboard AIs connected to the networks could be even more easily tracked. Basically, you knew where they would arrive before they even started rolling. But not his vintage pickup. It was one of the reasons why David happily stuck with it despite the apparent lack of digital comfort. Not that he had something to hide—at least not until today. It was just another bit of freedom that the digital society took away for the lull of more leisure, efficiency, and safety.</p>

<p>Once he was on the smaller roads in the countryside, the cameras would no longer be a problem. He chuckled. His little Walden was exactly where you could vanish from the connected world.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Where’s he heading, Mendez?” Luke Brennan asked, glancing at the rugged tablet his second-in-command was studying. His team’s black SUV was weaving through the afternoon traffic at a safe distance from Donnelly’s truck.</p>

<p>“Looks like he’s heading home, Cap.”</p>

<p>“We’ll hang around the neighborhood but keep out of sight. I don’t want him to see us lurking in the streets.”</p>

<hr />

<p>David was going through the things they would need in the cabin for the next few days: food, fresh clothing, and a satellite phone for emergencies. While holding the phone in his hand, he wondered how his meeting with Emily had quickly attracted uninvited guests. He had assumed that Emily was being followed from the airport. The FBI had found her there, but he could have led the team to Killian Court. He had to consider all variables and options.</p>

<p>So he took out his phone and pondered the best way to prevent it from becoming a tracking device. Turning it off wouldn’t be enough, though. Even turned off, phones can occasionally connect to networks, making them trackable unless the battery is completely drained. Even with the battery removed, it would still happily broadcast its ID to government scanners using RFID technology.</p>

<p>He needed a miniature Faraday cage, which was nothing more than a metallic mesh blocking electromagnetic signals. David loved tinkering with hardware and had some in his garage.</p>

<p>As he entered the brightly lit room, smelling faintly of gasoline, his eyes rested on his truck. A thought occurred to him, and he slapped his forehead.</p>

<p>He went to the cabinet next to his workbench and looked around until he found what he had been searching for. A few years ago, he had created a simple device to find open WiFi networks for an engineering class. It consisted of a microcontroller, a software radio module, and an antenna. After a quick code update, it would also scan long-range transmission frequencies. He opened his laptop on the workbench and started typing. After rebooting the device a minute later, he was rewarded with two strong signals on the small display.</p>

<p>“Fuck my life,” David muttered as he crawled under his truck with a flashlight.</p>

<hr />

<p>“One, there seems to be a problem with the gyroscope in the tracker,” Mendez alarmed Luke Brennan, sitting next to him with his eyes closed. Like every soldier, Brennan had mastered the art of sleeping wherever possible, even for just a few minutes.</p>

<p>But now he was wide awake. “What has happened? Have we lost the signal?”</p>

<p>“No, but it was a sudden, quick change in vertical position, see?” Mendez pointed to a chart on his tablet.</p>

<p>“Maybe it fell off because you know who didn’t affix it correctly,” Brennan said, turning to Hanson in the backseat.</p>

<p>“Or maybe he loaded something heavy into his truck bed?” Hanson offered and shrugged.</p>

<p>“Uh, it could be anything, Cap. But honestly, I don’t know. The signal might be disturbed by stuff in his garage,” Mendez scratched his head.</p>

<p>“Alright, we need eyes on the car. Decker, head to Donnelly’s place, find cover and keep watch. Double time!”</p>

<hr />

<p>“Well, well, well, look what we’ve got.” David carefully placed the two magnetic trackers on the metal toolbox in his truck bed, exactly as he found them. He examined the sophisticated devices, pondering his next move. He wasn’t sure how accurately their position would be signaled, but he didn’t want to take any chances. The small trackers looked sophisticated enough to contain gyroscopes and accelerometers to help locate their position, even if GPS signals weren’t available or disturbed.</p>

<p>He would have probably overlooked the second device if he hadn’t detected two signals. He would run the scanner in the cabin again to avoid nasty surprises.</p>

<p>He looked at the trackers and stroked his beard, pondering his options. He could leave them here and try to sneak out or shield them like he did with his phone. The latter would give him away immediately; he was sure that if they stopped broadcasting, this would alarm his pursuers. Leaving them here only worked if nobody was watching his home.</p>

<p>Whoever had placed the trackers wanted to know where he was going without having him under constant surveillance, so this offered him a third option, which was worth a try. He looked forward to the little surprise.</p>

<p>David returned to the kitchen, took the prepared supplies, and whistled as he carried them to his truck. After everything was in place, he slowly rolled out of the garage onto the quiet street of his Somerville home, feeling a pang of excitement.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
