<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>25. High Level</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="25-high-level">25. High Level</h1>

<p>After the meeting concluded, President Robert Weston stood behind the polished conference table and looked intently at the man standing next to him in the otherwise empty room. The table was scattered with name tags alongside some half-empty water bottles, marking the presence of high-level participants who had spent the last couple of hours discussing the implications of the Georgetown attack. Among them were the Secretaries of Homeland Security, Defense, and Commerce, as well as the Directors of the FBI, CIA, and NSA, and the most prominent leaders of the AI industry in the U.S.</p>

<p>“Mr President, you must reconsider the autonomous drone program,” Jason Bolt urged Weston.</p>

<p>“And why is this the case, Jason? Please enlighten me.”</p>

<p>“Because stopping it would send a fatal signal to the American people and our enemies. It’s a statement of weakness.”</p>

<p>“It’s my job to decide what’s in the best interest of the American people, and I can tell you that the slightest possibility of our drones starting a killing spree in our cities sends chills down my spine.”</p>

<p>Jason was shaking his head. “The cars were just a glitch in the grander scheme. Things like this happen at the forefront of innovation.”</p>

<p>Weston was taking a step back. “What are you trying to tell me, Bolt? I thought we were talking about the attack of psychopathic and begrudged professor?”</p>

<p>Bolt hesitated, realizing his slip. “Yes, that’s what I was trying to say. Autonomous cars, drones, and AI are safe. This was the work of a deranged personality. We just need to make sure this doesn’t happen again, people messing with the systems.”</p>

<p>Weston looked out of the large window of the meeting room into the blue, peaceful-looking sky, slowly nodding.</p>

<p>“Speaking of which, I understand that the FBI is still trying to get hold of Hartman?”</p>

<p>Weston turned his head back at Bolt. “He seemed to have simply vanished, which I find most peculiar. With all our face recognition algorithms and investigative AIs we’re unable to get hold of a single guy, a professor of all things, mind you, not some special operator type. And the report of unknowns that interfered with his arrest. This reminds me of times when our agencies played their private little games,” the President said while his eyes wandered over the name tags of the directors of the agencies at the table.</p>

<p>“I really want to know how Hartman pulled that off. It’s hard to believe that he did that single-handedly. But then again, AI is a powerful force multiplier, isn’t it, Jason?” He stared into Bolt’s eyes, which remained unfazed.</p>

<p>“If you want my advice, I suggest you don’t allow Hartman to explain his actions publicly. This would only unsettle the nation further. Or worse, encourage copycat terrorists. Instead, you should make an example of him and show what happens to people who attack the lifeline of our society. He’s today’s Osama bin Laden. He should go down spectacularly in blazing fire when they find him,” Bolt said, his eyes gleaming.</p>

<p>Weston crossed his arms, narrowing his eyes. “That’s not how we do it under my command, Mr. Bolt. We need to find the truth. For that, we need Hartman.”</p>

<p>“We need a strong leader who supports innovators during challenging times to help keep America great.”</p>

<p>“I beg your pardon?” Weston asked incredulously.</p>

<p>Jason took his time and peeled the label off a water bottle he had grabbed from the table as he began to speak.</p>

<p>“You understand me well. You remember, social media makes or breaks presidents. You want me and my algorithms on your good side if you want a second term, Bob,” Jason said, smiling after he delivered his only thinly veiled threat.</p>

<p>“But anyways, there are men ready to do what it takes,” Jason shrugged and dropped the bottle back on the table, making the President flinch.</p>

<p>And with that, he turned around and strode out of the conference room, leaving behind a bewildered Robert Weston, whom many still believed to be the most powerful man in the world. Jason Bolt wasn’t among them.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
