<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>49. In Position</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="49-in-position">49. In Position</h1>

<p>“Isn’t that your partner, Mercer?” Emily asked, pointing at the screen showing Bolt’s parade through the Austin Convention Center. She had been scrutinizing the footage for the last few minutes.</p>

<p>Alex Mercer had just returned from reconning the center. “I don’t know why he’s with Bolt, but that’s Jake. And plenty of Feds. Bolt’s got close protection now.”</p>

<p>“And the place is packed with flying cameras,” Joe Hartman said. “That’s not helping, either.”</p>

<p>“I anticipated many cameras, but this leaves no blind spots. They will identify any of us in seconds if we waltz in there,” David Donnelly said, scratching his head. “No chance to bring a tranquilizer gun in unnoticed either.”</p>

<p>“Well, the drones could be not only the problem but also part of the solution here,” Joe said thoughtfully without taking his eye off the screen. “I guess we can sneak one or two of our own in there.”</p>

<p>“Where are you going, Joe?” David asked.</p>

<p>“We use Bolt’s playbook. What’s the payload of our drones?”</p>

<p>“They’re small surveillance drones; you could add a few grams but not enough to deliver explosives, as Bolt did. You’d need cargo drones for that.”</p>

<p>“Honestly, this ain’t good enough. Too many points of failure, and we literally have only one shot. And we’re running out of time,” Mercer said, pointing to the interactive floor plan that was opened on the other laptop. “We’ll have to do it old-fashioned. Bolt will be speaking in the Great Ballroom on the 4th floor. We go in with flashbangs. In the chaos, the close protection detail will try to bring their charge out of the building on the fastest route, the service elevator here, which goes straight to the loading area on the street level. They will be their most vulnerable when they get out of the elevator and try to get him into one of their cars. That’s where we will strike. We shoot Bolt with the tranquilizer gun and neutralize the agents.”</p>

<p>After a short pause, Mercer continued. “No lethal force. We incapacitate only. Understood?” He looked sternly at David, who raised his hands in a mock surrender.</p>

<p>&quot;Straightforward. Let&apos;s do it,” David said.</p>

<p>“You know how to handle a rifle?”</p>

<p>David Donnelly nodded enthusiastically.</p>

<p>“Emily and I are going to take care of the security guards at the loading bay,” Mercer continued.</p>

<p>“How’s that? Why me?” Emily asked nervously.</p>

<p>“You’ll distract them before I take action. Then you’ll be our designated driver. Get the ambulance to the loading area. And floor it to the university’s lab once we have Bolt. Accustom yourself to the route; there will be no navigation on board, thanks to David.”</p>

<p>David shrugged with a smile.</p>

<p>Mercer turned to Joe. “You have any experience with close-quarters combat?”</p>

<p>Joe shook his head.</p>

<p>“You can open a can of Coke?”</p>

<p>Joe nodded, unsure where Mercer was going.</p>

<p>“A flashbang isn’t so much different. So this is settled. I’ll wait for Bolt’s security detail and ambush them when they exit the elevator. Once David has shot every dart we have, he’ll join me in the fight. To kick it off, go up and throw the grenades, then get the hell out of there and back down to help us,” he pointed at Hartman.</p>

<p>All eyes were on Joe, who swallowed heavily and nodded.</p>

<p>Mercer scrolled through the floor plan on the laptop.</p>

<p>“There’s a skywalk from the Hilton hotel to the fourth floor of the convention center, above East Fourth Street. This should get you pretty close to your strike point. There will be some security at the bridge, but definitely less than at the center’s official entrance. You’ll need to get creative.”</p>

<p>“A skywalk?!” Joe went pale. He had always suffered from vertigo, and his thoughts went back to that humiliating school trip. He shuddered.</p>

<p>“Everything okay?” Emily asked, placing her hand on his shoulder. Joe straightened a bit and nodded.</p>

<p>“How do I get past the security cameras in the hotel?” Joe asked.</p>

<p>“I have an idea, but it won’t be pleasant,” David said apologetically.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Man, moving anything on my face damn hurts,” Joe said, who looked swollen and disfigured, after David had used saline injections to alter the proportions of his face. </p>

<p>&quot;Focus, Hartman. Get moving and keep a low profile. You have five minutes before we go for the guards at the loading area,” Mercer said, pointing to his watch.</p>

<p>With a pained look, Joe quickly walked up Red River Street and turned around the corner to East Fourth, vanishing from their view.</p>

<p>Five minutes later, Mercer looked around and saw that David Donnelly was in position on the other side of the street, hiding behind a large live oak tree. He signaled with his hands that they were ready to proceed, and David acknowledged.</p>

<p>“Showtime,” Mercer said, feeling the syringe with the sedative they had found in the ambulance in his hand. He moved forward with Emily, who stepped up to the security station at the Austin Conference Center’s loading area at the back of the complex. Mercer hid behind a large concrete column two paces away, part of a fenced colonnade to secure the bay, watching carefully the angles of the surveillance cameras covering the gates.</p>

<p>“Excuse me, sir?” Emily smiled sweetly as she knocked on the open door’s Perspex window.</p>

<p>The young guard, who had been languidly tapping on his phone, jumped up and smiled awkwardly back, scratching his head. Emily figured that the kid in the high-visibility vest was probably a student worker.</p>

<p>“How can I help you, ma’am?”</p>

<p>“Look, my phone’s battery is empty, so I’ve no maps working. I’m already late for Jason Bolt’s keynote and can’t find the right entrance. Can you please help me?” Emily stepped back on the pavement to lure the kid out of the station and pointed in the direction opposite Mercer’s position. “Is this the correct way?”</p>

<p>Although she felt bad about what was about to happen, her smile didn’t show.</p>

<p>The guard didn’t see Mercer’s swift palm strike coming, dropping him instantly. His eyes rolled over, and Mercer caught the collapsing body, lowering him back into the security station. He took out the syringe with the sedative and injected it into his arm to make sure he would stay knocked out cold for the next hour.</p>

<p>Just as he was about to get the high-visibility vest of the guard, he heard a voice from the parking lot on the loading bay.</p>

<p>“Hey kid, you ok?” A man in a dark suit, smart glasses, and an FBI badge dangling from his neck walked over, his hand already on the way to the gun in the holster under his jacket.</p>

<p>The moment the agent had Mercer in the sights of his smart glasses, he would be busted, the facial recognition taking care of it. Mercer cursed. He should have expected that the FBI would watch Bolt’s transport, although nobody was in sight when he did his recon.</p>

<p>“Yeah, everything good,” he said half-heartedly, readying himself for a fight.</p>

<p>“What the fuck?!”</p>

<p>Mercer peered through the station’s window and saw the agent clutching his neck with a mixture of surprise and anger on his face, a dart sticking out from the side.</p>

<p>A moment later, he faltered, crumbling to the ground.</p>

<p>Mercer moved quickly. He grabbed the agent’s smart glasses and stomped on them. He dragged the man, who was much heavier than the security guard, into the station and laid him next to the student on the ground.</p>

<p>Looking to the other side of the street, he saw David giving him a thumbs-up to signal that the Dan-Inject was ready again. He realized there were four darts left.</p>

<p>Putting on the guard’s vest, he stepped out on the street. Emily had already left to get the ambulance from a nearby parking lot. After quickly looking around, he signaled David to come over.</p>

<p>Donnelly carried the gun over his shoulder and slipped into the security station.</p>

<p>“What is Hartman waiting for? Any minute, someone will check in on the agent, and the shit will hit the fan.” Mercer greeted him.</p>

<p>“All we can do now is take our positions and wait,” David said, taking the gun. “He’ll come through, I’m sure.”</p>

<p>A police siren wailed somewhere nearby </p>

<p>“He fucking better does,” Mercer swore as he left for the service elevator, and Emily drove the ambulance through the gate, “he fucking better does.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
