<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>43. The Bucket Ends</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="43-the-bucket-ends">43. The Bucket Ends</h1>

<p>Captain Steve Monroe leaped from the Bell UH-1Y Venom, which had just touched down on an intersection of two logging roads a mile from McKenzie’s cabin. The precision landing without AI assistance was a challenge for their pilot, which he had gladly accepted. Most senior pilots preferred the good old direct action over the more video game-like experience anyway, even without the threat of a backdoor.</p>

<p>Four marines with M4 carbines secured the chopper’s perimeter. Monroe walked to the meeting point David Donnelly had suggested. The encrypted message from Donnelly, attached to an unsuspicious email, was unexpected. Hartman was willing to meet with Clayton, and he made it urgent. Given Hartman’s first encounter with Brennan’s team, Monroe had assumed more persuasion would be needed. </p>

<p>He waited a few minutes until he saw movement nearby. He had been watched until the group decided to proceed. He recognized Joe Hartman, David Donnelly, and Emily Stone from the pictures in their files. Donnelly looked confident and focused, Hartman wearily, and Stone tried to hide a grimace with every step she took.</p>

<p>Monroe extended his hand. “Captain Steven Monroe, U.S. Marine Corps. I’m General Clayton’s aide.” </p>

<p>Donnelly was the first to take it. “David Donnelly.” His handshake was firm and energetic.</p>

<p>Emily was the next. “I’m Emily Stone.”</p>

<p>“Pleased to meet you, ma’am,” Monroe said automatically, but he immediately regretted it when he realized the young woman’s recent ordeal.</p>

<p>“Joe Hartman, but I guess you already knew that. You haven’t been with the thugs that tried to kidnap me,” Joe Hartman stepped forward and looked the clean-shaven officer up and down. “No offense.”</p>

<p>“None taken, Sir. I understand that time is of the essence, and our ride is waiting. So is the General. Please follow me,” he answered, motioning for the Super Huey, idling a hundred meters down the logging road.</p>

<p>As they walked, Joe considered the possibility of delivering himself to his torturers. Images of waterboarding flashed through his mind. He shivered, suppressing despair. This decision could either save them or lead to doom.</p>

<hr />

<p>Jake Lin seriously doubted his life choices as he entered the evidence room. When Alex Mercer asked him for help, he didn’t expect misappropriation of evidence in a murder case. If this wasn’t the most significant domestic threat in U.S. history, he was sure he would lose his badge for good, including his pension and any chance to work in law enforcement for the rest of his life. Even a shopping mall cop would be out of the question then.</p>

<p>He held his badge next to the reader at the checkout terminal. The cold air of the evidence room prickled Jake Lin&apos;s skin, making the hairs on his neck stand on end. He looked straight into the facial recognition unit that, with a combination of cameras and lidar scanners, ensured he was the person his badge claimed to be.</p>

<p>“Welcome, Agent Jacob Lin. This transaction’s ID is A3B7X9Z1 and will be recorded. What items do you wish to check out?” the synthetic voice of the terminal asked.</p>

<p>Jake stated the case number and asked for Gideon Herzog’s personal belongings, which included a smartwatch, a broken tablet, a wallet, and a memory pack. All electronic devices had been booked as dysfunctional because the EMP had destroyed their chips.</p>

<p>For a moment, he expected that his request would be denied or security would storm into the room to arrest him, but neither happened.</p>

<p>Instead, he saw the robotic arm behind the storage room’s thick, bulletproof glass window whirl into action, retrieving Jake’s requested items, each neatly sealed into an evidence bag with an RFID label.</p>

<p>After his digital signature was on the terminal, the bags slid out and were collected in a plastic box he took.</p>

<p>The elevator’s doors closed behind Lin, and he looked into its large mirror. He had sweat beads on his forehead—and this was still the easy part. Now, he would have to smuggle the box’s contents out of the building. He left the elevator on the floor where he had booked a desk for the day and sat down when he had found his place, the box on the floor next to him.</p>

<p>He took out a burner phone and opened an app marketed as ‘purely educational’. Using the phone&apos;s NFC chip, the app read the RFID tags on the evidence bags and cloned them. Essentially, the device would now fool any scanner into believing the tags were still present by responding with a copy of the labels&apos; IDs.</p>

<p>He took the tablet and the memory pack out of the box and looked around. The shared office was empty except for a pair of agents at the other end of the room. The security cameras in the corners covered all workstations, so he had to act as unconscious as possible. He bowed down and slipped the devices into a daypack he had brought next to the box and the burner phone under the left evidence bags. Hoping the desk had covered his sleight of hand, he closed the daypack lined with a metal mesh that should the original RFID signals. Otherwise, he noted, he was royally fucked.</p>

<p>He stood up and carried the box to the evidence lockers at the wall. He closed it and locked the door, holding his badge to the reader and looking into the small camera. The locker registered the cloned RFID labels, and the system logged that Agent Lin had securely stored away the evidence he had checked out twenty minutes earlier.</p>

<hr />

<p>As the elevator doors closed behind him, Jake Lin felt a momentary relief, quickly replaced by the tension of what lay ahead. Twenty minutes later, he was sitting on a bench in John Marshall Park, shaded by a large tree, his daypack on the ground next to him. </p>

<p>A young, broad-shouldered man approached the bench from the other side and sat down, slinging down a daypack that looked exactly like his. After briefly studying the statue in the park’s center through his smart glasses, he grabbed Lin’s daypack and strolled away.</p>

<p>Jake thought it was a bit ironic that, in the digital age, this was such a classic move that left fewer traces if done right. Escaping AI-based surveillance still required very traditional tradecraft.</p>

<p>“Spartan Actual, Spartan Two, handover completed; RTB,” Sergeant Enrique Mendez spoke softly without looking back.</p>

<hr />

<p>As General Richard Clayton entered the small, windowless conference room in Henderson Hall, Lance Corporal Marty Decker snapped to attention. Alex Mercer had to suppress the same impulse, hardwired over years of service. Captain Steven Monroe, who had just barely straightened up, looked at Mercer with a hinted smile.</p>

<p>“As you were. The elusive Doctor Hartman,” Clayton nodded at Joe Hartman and extended his hand, which Joe shook after a short moment of hesitation.</p>

<p>“Doctor Donnelly, Miss Stone,” the General welcomed the rest of the small group. They had been given time to clean up and got a hearty breakfast from the chow hall. They stood in borrowed PTs and only David looked comfortable in the Marine green physical training uniform. Clayton gestured for them to sit around the light grey conference table with a cluster of chilled water bottles at its center.</p>

<p>“Before we get to the most pressing issues, I want to clarify something. I owe you an apology, professor. Based on yesterday’s information, the situation seemed to warrant sending a team after you. But I can see now that this was… ill-advised,” Clayton addressed Joe.</p>

<p>“Well, at least you didn&apos;t try to shred and roast me and my friends, so we’re good,” Joe said with a dismissive gesture, caught off guard by the General’s opening.</p>

<p>Clayton nodded curtly and continued.</p>

<p>“Let’s put all the cards on the table. Captain Monroe and Agent Mercer will brief you in more detail afterward, but we’re facing the biggest threat to the U.S. in its history. We have reason to believe that we face a conspiracy up to the highest echelons of government orchestrated by Jason Bolt. The last missing piece in the puzzle was that Bolt had compromised his AI chips with a backdoor. The Autonomous Drone Continuity Program will be launched in less than fourteen hours. It means that a completely autonomous drone force will be activated that can make its kill decisions on its own. And they can’t be stopped by human intervention. In theory, it is the perfect deterrent. But since the drones are operating with Bolt’s chips, this will give the man weapons capable of mass destruction. We’re facing a coup with us and our allies at gunpoint, no less.” Clayton paused and looked around. The shock on the weary faces of Joe, David, and Emily was clearly visible, even after all they had been through.</p>

<p>“That’s what the fucker was waiting for,” David was the first to find his voice again, shaking his head vigorously.</p>

<p>“Why is nobody stopping it?” Emily asked incredulously.</p>

<p>“President Weston was elected on the promise that domestic AI guarantees America’s superiority in the 21st century. Can you imagine what it would mean for him to admit that this AI wasn’t safe? And Bolt has done a thorough job,” Richard Clayton added, looking at Alex Mercer. “We believe the FBI is compromised. Other agencies and the Department of Defense likely as well.”</p>

<p>“Nobody is going to help us then,” Joe said, the resignation in his voice obvious.</p>

<p>“No, we need to help ourselves. The bucket ends here,” General Clayton pounded the table with his fist for emphasis.</p>

<p>In the now quiet room, Joe felt the gravity of the words sinking in.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
