<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>28. Identification</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="28-identification">28. Identification </h1>

<p>Emily Stone’s voice was curt. “Can we meet at the Great Dome?”</p>

<p>“Hello, Ms. Stone. Good to hear from you so soon. We’re not far. How about five minutes?” Alex Mercer replied smoothly.</p>

<p>“Alone, Agent Mercer. Can you do that?”</p>

<p>He glanced at his partner, Jake Lin, who shrugged.</p>

<p>“Yes, if it helps. But I assure you, Agent Lin is as trustworthy as I am,” Alex said with a smile.</p>

<p>“It’s not Agent Lin that I’m bothered about. What I have to ask is for your ears only. Does this work for you?”</p>

<p>“Sure, Ms. Stone. See you in a few at the steps of the Great Dome.”</p>

<p>After the call ended, Jake shook his head. “If I didn’t know better, I’d think she’s asking you out for dinner.”</p>

<p>“Pretty women do that all the time, Jake.”</p>

<p>“Hard to believe, buddy. But honestly, is that a wise move?”</p>

<p>“Do you think it’s a trap? I can handle it.”</p>

<p>“It’s more that we’re chasing too many loose ends. Getting Hartman should’ve been easy, but he vanished. Finding him should be a piece of cake,” Jake gestured at the traffic camera.</p>

<p>Mercer answered soberly, “This case isn’t what it seems. Sometimes, you must pull at different ends to unravel a complex situation.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Five minutes later, Emily and Alex stood before the Great Dome.</p>

<p>“Here I am, Ms. Stone. Shall we walk?” Mercer asked, looking over the green lawn of Killian Court, buzzing with students.</p>

<p>“Thank you, Agent Mercer,” Emily said, her eyes scanning the court.</p>

<p>“Why are you sending those goons after me and David? Intimidation won’t work,” she added, her voice tense.</p>

<p>“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he replied, meeting her gaze.</p>

<p>Emily pulled out her phone. “Let me show you,” she said, opening her camera roll. Distant laughter drifted over the lawn, which smelled of freshly cut grass.</p>

<p>She watched him closely. Recognition flickered in his eyes.</p>

<p>“You know who those men are, Mr. Mercer, right?”</p>

<p>Alex studied her determined face. Sharing information could help her open up. Time was ticking to get Hartman, and Emily might be their only lead.</p>

<p>“Yes. They’re not FBI. That’s Captain Luke Brennan,” he said, zooming in on Brennan’s face.</p>

<p>“They’re special operators. Marines. I served with Brennan under General Clayton. He’s capable but not discreet.”</p>

<p>Emily’s eyes widened. She scribbled the names in her notebook. “Why is the military involved? Is that legal?”</p>

<p>“Good question, Ms. Stone. I have no idea. But they’re dangerous men.”</p>

<p>“Did they try to kidnap Joe?”</p>

<p>Mercer halted. “How do you know about that, Ms. Stone?”</p>

<p>“Why did you tell me about Brennan, Agent Mercer?”</p>

<p>“Because I want the truth. I want to know what really happened in Georgetown and why. I want justice for the victims. It could be Hartman or someone else. I don’t care about probabilities; I want facts.”</p>

<p>Emily studied his face, noting his agitation. She was relieved when she felt that his emotions were genuine. “I want the truth too, Agent Mercer. Yes, I spoke to Joe after he escaped those operators… and you. He’s flawed but not a cold-blooded killer.”</p>

<p>“But you won’t tell me where he is, will you?”</p>

<p>Emily watched a goldfinch fly by. “Call me Emily. I believe you want the truth, but I can’t tell you where he is. I’ll buy him all the time he needs to find it—the truth.”</p>

<p>“Call me Alex or just Mercer. The pressure is high, Emily. This is bigger than the Georgetown killings. It’s about trust in the system. Hartman doesn’t have much time. I feel the investigation is already settled, and the grand finale is near.”</p>

<p>“You mean presenting a solution rather than justice?” Emily trembled with anger.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid so. Please persuade Joe to talk to me.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
