<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>31. Research</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="31-research">31. Research</h1>

<p>After her meeting with Alex Mercer, Emily needed a moment alone. Despite the danger Brennan and his team posed, she decided to walk back to her hotel. Initially, she paused frequently, scanning her surroundings for any signs of pursuit. But soon, she calmed down, settling into a steady pace, her mind racing with the implications of Mercer&apos;s revelations. The scenic routes of Boston’s historic districts went unnoticed as her thoughts churned.</p>

<p>Suddenly, she halted. The memory of the car attacks in Georgetown surged back, flooding her with panic. What if somebody started turning self-driving cars into weapons? Had Georgetown been a brutal assassination?</p>

<p>She leaned against a nearby building, taking deep breaths. A middle-aged man approached, concern visible on his face. “Are you okay?” he asked.</p>

<p>Startled, Emily snapped, “I’m fine. Leave me alone!”</p>

<p>“Sorry... I’m sorry,” he muttered, shaking his head as he walked away.</p>

<p>Emily caught herself. “No, I’m sorry. That was kind of you,” she called after him.</p>

<p>“Rough day? It will pass,” he replied with a smile before continuing on his way.</p>

<p>Emily doubted it would pass. She noticed a sign for the T, indicating the subway station nearby. She had had enough of walking in the open. “How fitting,” she thought as she consulted her phone to navigate to her hotel by train.</p>

<hr />

<p>Thirty minutes later, Emily sat at the small desk in her hotel room, her laptop open next to the little black notebook. She circled “Captain Luke Brennan” and “General Richard Clayton.”</p>

<p>Online searches for Brennan yielded nothing. She expected as much; any special operator worth their salt wouldn’t leave a digital footprint. Mercer, too, was a ghost online.</p>

<p>Frustrated, she opened the mini-fridge under the desk, grabbed a Coke, and took a few gulps, hoping the caffeine and sugar would help her focus. She paced the room before sliding back into the chair.</p>

<p>A search for Richard Clayton brought more results. The general was a decorated war hero known for leading from the front. His Marines affectionately called him “Ironhand,” a testament to his fierce reputation and leadership. He now commanded a combined task force of Marines and Rangers. Clayton seemed like someone not to be messed with. But why was Joe in his crosshairs?</p>

<p>Digging deeper, Emily found an obituary for Sarah Clayton, the general’s only child, killed in action a year ago. Sarah, a young Marine lieutenant, died during a rescue mission. There were also posts of Sarah with her father, showing Clayton as a caring dad.</p>

<p>Then Emily found a Reddit post about an autonomous drone incident killing a Marine squad in a blue-on-blue incident, supposedly covered up by the Department of Defense. The post was from a year ago, the same time Sarah died. The account was deleted, but Emily’s blood ran cold. Was this too much of a coincidence?</p>

<p>Emily took a deep breath and moved to the window, staring into the Boston night. The implications of her findings were chilling. Speculative as it was, it felt like a lead worth pursuing. She needed to discuss this with Joe and David.</p>

<p>Her phone chimed from the bed at that exact moment.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
