<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>15. Sarah</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="15-sarah">15. Sarah</h1>

<p>Richard Clayton sat in his Pentagon office with a red coffee mug in his hand, originally embellished with the golden Marine Corps crest, the kind you can get in a souvenir shop. The crest had faded over the years, and the mug had seen many stations of Clayton’s career, but it had been a gift when he had completed basic training, and it held sentimental value for him. There were not many things left of the little time he had with his wife Nancy, who passed away too early and left him as a single parent.</p>

<p>Clayton was intently listening to the report he received from Luke Brennan, standing at the parade rest before him, in stark contrast to his casual attire. </p>

<p>“It was the right call to abort the mission and allow Hartman to escape, Captain. This gives us more operational freedom than having him sit in an FBI interview room or a cell for that matter. But not much. Obviously, the doctor is more resourceful than I initially gave him credit for. He’s still at large. But then again, maybe it’s just the FBI being really bad at their job. Cutting down on staff and relying on computers instead might not have been the smartest move for law enforcement, after all.”</p>

<p>“Actually, sir, it&apos;s not that simple,” Brennan said, his eyes suggesting there was more to come.</p>

<p>“Go ahead, Brennan, I’m listening.”</p>

<p>“One of the Agents, General, he’s one of ours. Well, sort of.”</p>

<p>“Come again?”</p>

<p>“Major Mercer was the agent who took the initiative after we started the diversion.”</p>

<p>“Mercer? He wasn’t bad for a grunt. It’s a shame that he left the Rangers,” said Clayton, whose task force included elements of the Army Rangers. He remembered Alexander Mercer well as a very capable officer who had had the potential to go far in his military career but resigned under circumstances not entirely clear to the General after he had been reassigned to another unit.</p>

<p>After a moment of thought, Clayton continued: “That may give us a different angle on the matter, Captain. Depending on your progress in the next 24 hours, we might need to bring him into the fold. The clock is ticking, Luke. Once the autonomous drone program is deployed, the U.S. military will be changed forever, and there will be no turning back. Find Hartman, Captain. Dismissed!”</p>

<p>Brennan snapped to attention and saluted sharply before he turned around and left the room.</p>

<p>As Richard Clayton closed his eyes, he couldn&apos;t help but think about the young, blonde Marine lieutenant from the photograph on his desk in his quarters. He picked up the photograph, his fingers tracing the edges of the frame.</p>

<h2 class="section-title" id="twelve-months-ago-thousands-of-miles-away">Twelve months ago, thousands of miles away</h2>

<p>Lieutenant Sarah Clayton was cautiously moving through the ruins of the small village, her M4 Carbine at the low ready, her finger resting on the rifle’s frame.</p>

<p>She heard the voice of her squad’s Sergeant Andrew Miller next to her: “I feel like someone is watching us, LT.”</p>

<p>“Copy that, Sarge,” Sarah answered without taking her eyes off the scenery washed over by the pale morning light, her head on a swivel. Miller was a seasoned Marine, and like any butter bar with their commission, she was very much listening to what her senior non-commissioned officer told her.</p>

<p>Their reconnaissance mission was based on intelligence indicating that insurgents were holding Private Wilson, who was missing in action, captive at this location. The young Marine’s prospects were grim, assuming he was still alive. Her headset crackled, and she signaled her Marines to stop.</p>

<p>“Hammer actual, Eagle Eye, over”</p>

<p>“Go ahead, Eagle Eye, over”</p>

<p>“Hammer, be advised that an Erebos drone is deployed in your area. Confirm your IFF transponders are operational, over.” Clayton and her team had been briefed on the new experimental autonomous MQ-50X Erebos drone when they received their kit’s upgraded IFF, short for Identify Friend or Foe, transponders.</p>

<p>Clayton switched to the squad’s tactical network. “Everybody, transponder check.”</p>

<p>Sarah checked the transponder on her own harness after all marines had called in with a green status.</p>

<p>“Eagle Eye, Hammer actual. All transponders green.”</p>

<p>“Roger that, Hammer. Eagle Eye, out”</p>

<p>Clayton signaled the team to move on. Their Danner Mojave boots were kicking up dust, getting carried away by the wind and forming small clouds.</p>

<p>“What was command thinking sending one of those sketchy birds into our AO?” Lance Corporal Jarred Lowry, who had taken point, asked over the tactical network.</p>

<p>“It won’t drop on your head, Lowry, and even if it did, there’s not much to damage. Now cut the chatter!” Clayton reprimanded the corporal under the soft chuckles of her team.</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t count it out, LT,” said Miller quietly, raising his head and looking at the sky. “If the techs at the base are to believed, those things are far from ready for battle.”</p>

<hr />

<p>Their point man, Lowry, raised his fist at a hill, signaling the squad to stop. He turned to Clayton, pointed his index and middle finger to his eyes, and then down the hill. Sarah crawled slowly to Lowry’s position and looked through her field glasses. Now, she saw the entry of a cave partly obscured by a camouflage net. Fifty meters left to it were a number of wooden panels on the ground, covered with rocks and sand. Looking to the right, she counted three figures in fatigues sitting under a ledge and smoking with AK-47 Kalashnikovs in their laps.</p>

<p>After moving back from the top of the hill, she briefly conferred with Miller and then spoke softly over the tactical network: ”Enemy position one hundred meters ahead below the hill. At least three armed opposition visible to the right, unknown oppo in a cave structure. Fifty meters left of the cave a covered ground hole.”</p>

<p>Lowry and Solano, you take out the three guys from the hill and provide cover. We move to the cave and clear it out, but be aware that our man might be in there as well. Try not to shoot or frag Wilson. Await my go. Are we clear?”</p>

<p>After receiving the all-clear from her squad, Sarah called in the enemy position with Eagle Eye and requested air support.</p>

<p>Then she again spoke over the tactical network: “The cavalry is on the way. Let’s smoke those bastards and get Wilson out there. Go, go, go!”</p>

<p>Corporals Lowry and Solano aimed at the three men, who were still smoking and never saw their deaths coming, their heads exploding into clouds of pink mist. The rest of the team was already carefully moving down the slope to the cave, taking cover when possible. Alarmed by the shooting, more armed men came running out of the cave, already emptying their automatic weapons in the Marines’ direction. Bullets tore into the rocks next to Sarah, who drove to the ground and took aim at the enemy with her carbine. She’s always been a great shot and didn’t miss this time, either. Not all of her men were so lucky. Private Alejandro Estevez, a young Marine on his first deployment, was squarely hit and didn’t move after he went down.</p>

<p>The firefight lasted only minutes. After every enemy was either dead or dying and their weapons secured, Sergeant Miller took two men and checked out the cave. They found nothing apart from leftover rations and crates of ammo. Sarah looked around the carnage, and her eyes rested on the wooden panels.</p>

<p>Lowry, who had moved with Solano to Estevez, called Sarah: “LT, Lowry. The good news is that Estevez still breaths.”</p>

<p>“Copy that, Lowry. Move him down to cover until our ride home arrives. They are 10 mikes out.” Ten minutes could be an eternity with a bullet in your guts, but there was no way to speed things up, Sarah knew.</p>

<p>She tapped Miller on the shoulder, who was scanning the area for new threats.</p>

<p>“Sarge, let’s take a look at those planks. Maybe it’s just their latrine, but I wanna make sure.”</p>

<p>After carefully dragging away the panels in case it was rigged with explosives, Sarah looked down into the hole while Miller trained his M4 to the opening. They had finally found Private Wilson. Dirty, emaciated, and dehydrated, but alive.</p>

<p>“We will get you home, Marine,” Sarah said softly, as tears rolled down the young man’s face.</p>

<p>Miller, who was again on the lookout, thought he saw something like a reflection. Sarah Clayton noticed him focusing on a point on the horizon.</p>

<p>“You spotted something? Movement on the ground?”</p>

<p>“No, ma’am, in the air. Might be our ride,” the Sergeant answered thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“But that’s not the right direction. I will confirm with Eagle.”</p>

<p>“Wait one, that’s no gunship. It’s a drone,” he said as he looked through the optics of his binoculars.</p>

<p>“We could have used that 10 mikes ago,” Sarah said, slowly shaking her head.</p>

<p>The drone started to hover over their heads.</p>

<p>“That doesn’t look right, Sarge. Aren’t they supposed to be up much higher? What the fuck is it doing?”</p>

<p>Miller, who had his binoculars still trained on the drone, was the only one to see the bright shine of the ignition of the Hellfire missiles.</p>

<p>“Cover!” was the last thing Sarah Clayton heard before, in a blazing flash of light, the young Lieutenant and everyone around her were torn apart in a firestorm. The rest was only darkness and silence.</p>

<p>Long after the dust had settled, a small, 2-inch metallic device was found 75 meters up the hill. Its green LED ring was softly glowing, indicating that Sarah’s transponder was still functional.</p>

<hr />

<p>As a soldier, Richard Clayton accepted death as a part of life. And blue-on-blue incidents did happen, killing and maiming with friendly fire. But those deaths were always human decisions. The decision to pull the trigger. The order to execute an operation. As flawed as human judgment was, there was always somebody responsible. Questions of humanity, morality, and justice had to be answered.</p>

<p>Until AI came and took over the killing.</p>

<p>Clayton’s eyes started to burn with grief and rage. As much as Sarah’s senseless death did hurt him more than words could say, the stakes were of a fundamental nature. This was his mission as a father and no less as an officer in the Armed Forces of the United States. He had to win this battle, so Sarah’s loss would at least help save other’s lives from the machines.</p>

<p>So help him, God.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
