<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>3. Beers</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="3-beers">3. Beers</h1>

<p>Joe’s apartment was modern and functional. He enjoyed clear lines and muted colors mixed with carefully curated, minimalist Scandinavian furniture from the mid-20th century. Visitors often remarked that it resembled an Airbnb more than a home. However, Joe enjoyed its cleanliness and detachment, finding solace in its calming atmosphere. But not today. The events in Georgetown had left him deeply unsettled. Unwelcome memories flashed before his eyes, but he tried to shake them away.</p>

<p>He turned to social media, his usual favorite pastime, but the absurd theories and opinions about Georgetown only agitated him more. Unable to bear the online ramblings, he said, “Vesta, please suggest something entertaining.”</p>

<p>“Sure, Joe, based on your previous nights, how about I create an intriguing movie with breathtaking action scenes starring Bruce Willis, Tom Cruise, and the adorable Charlotte Hanson?”</p>

<p>“Thanks, but no thanks.” Joe rolled his eyes at the cheerful and exaggerated response that seemed to be typical for conversational AI since its beginnings. Having a movie generated for him based on his preferences was usually a guaranteed way to spend an entertaining evening, at least if you mixed some beers in. However, this “algotrash” wasn’t exactly what you would call a cinematic masterpiece. And things blowing up in 3D was the last thing he needed today.</p>

<p>“Vesta, connect me with David.”</p>

<p>“Hi Joe, what brings me the pleasure of seeing you?”</p>

<p>“Dave, I was wondering, you in for a beer tonight?”</p>

<p>“Sure thing; our usual watering hole, then?”</p>

<p>“Yep, see you in 30, ok?”</p>

<p>David Donnelly closed the connection with a smile and nod, grabbed his jacket, and headed out of his campus office.</p>

<hr />

<p>David Donnelly was Joe’s mentor when he started teaching at MIT. Despite being ten years older than Joe, David became one of the few people that Joe considered a friend. As an engineering professor, David enjoyed building things with his hands. He had slightly longer grey hair, a full beard that was not always neatly trimmed, and broad shoulders from physical work. David broke the conventions of academic style, but he was one of the sharpest minds in his field.</p>

<p>Now he was sitting at their bar’s favorite table, scratched and dented by uncounted patrons over the years. The scent of hop and worn leather was hanging in the air. The room was lit by a mix of neon signs behind the bar and in the windows, large and simple lamps hanging from the ceiling, and the screens on the walls. Usually, these screens showed sports like the latest Patriots game, but not today. David averted his gaze from the videos and interviews discussing all kinds of theories about the incident in Georgetown, which had shaken up the nation. Just then, he glanced at the door and saw Joe entering the bar. He raised his hand to greet his friend.</p>

<hr />

<p>Joe gratefully accepted the still-cold pint of Samuel Addams waiting for him at their table. “So, how did your day go, professor?” Joe asked after he had sat the glass back on the wooden table.</p>

<p>“Actually, it was pretty well going until, you know…” David said and waved his hand at the screens. “And I imagine yours wasn’t better?”</p>

<p>“If anything, it ruined my favorite lecture,” Joe answered, only half-jokingly.</p>

<p>David could feel the tension that lay beneath the answer.</p>

<p>“Probably felt harder than for most of your students. I know that it’s hard.”</p>

<p>“After all those years, someone would expect that it’s getting easier, and it does. Until it doesn’t.”</p>

<p>“Your parents were good people, Joe. Your dad helped me figure things out when I was just getting the hang of the whole academic circus.”</p>

<p>The memory of the burned-out car where his parents died over 30 years ago made Joe shiver, but he didn’t say anything.</p>

<p>David knew that Joe wasn’t one to talk about what he tried to keep inside, under the veneer of the intelligent, slightly arrogant, but always entertaining expert. He changed the subject: “I’m going to the cabin tomorrow, and guess what? I have a new hydro-generator already on the truck bed, so there will be enough power for comfort even if I have some spoilt visitors from the big city.”</p>

<p>That made Joe chuckle. “You’re getting old and lazy. That’s the real reason, Dave!”</p>

<p>David smiled. His cabin in the woods was where he spent most of his free time, away from Boston, screens, and media.</p>

<p>“Why, you should come and visit me. There’s always something to do I could use a hand with.”</p>

<p>“The last time I visited, it was totally disconnected from the world, and I’m not the offline type.”</p>

<p>“Ain’t that the truth? But this won’t change anytime soon. Sitting in a valley surrounded by a magnificent forest does that for you. That’s exactly why I chose it: going off the grid and drinking my morning coffee with nothing to view but the sun rising over the lake.”</p>

<p>“To your little Walden, Dave!”</p>

<p>The air was laced with the bittersweet tang of old beer and the low rumble of conversations, punctuated by the clink of their glasses. </p>

<hr />

<p>“I wonder what Jason is up to now,” asked David.</p>

<p>“Nothing short of world domination for Bolt and his AI chips,” snorted Joe, taking a deep gulp from his glass. His former research assistant turned tech billionaire was a bit of a sore spot for Joe.</p>

<p>“Have you read Emily’s piece about the new research facility he’s set up? I find the idea of self-organizing AI intriguing. And that’s a lot of money going into the region.”</p>

<p>“You sound like a politician, Dave.”</p>

<p>“Seems like politicians are still throwing a lot of cash at anyone who produces AI chips in the U.S. I mean, it’s a smart move, right? I thought you’d be all in since it makes your research even more relevant.”</p>

<p>“If that’s even possible,” Joe laughed, now clearly feeling the slight buzz of his beers. “But really, Bolt is the last one who needs public funding. The guy is backed by venture capital that seems to be endless and has so many personal funds that he’s buying every promising startup he comes across. It’s not good to allow one guy to build a de facto monopoly that depends on his personal whims.”</p>

<p>“Look who is now sounding like a politician,” David chuckled.</p>

<p>“No, really, I know this guy. He’s seriously deranged.”</p>

<p>“Well, that’s why you kicked him off your team, alright. But it seems it served him well.”</p>

<p>“Whatever,” Joe grumbled, his face clearly showing signs of disgust.</p>

<p>David was absentmindedly rotating the half-full glass in his hand. “Emily made it quite clear that the person in question is not the digital savior he believes he is. It’s nice to hear a genuine human voice amidst all the AI pseudo-journalism masquerading as news these days.” He looked up to Joe, “Have you spoken to her ever since?”</p>

<p>“No, no, I haven’t. I’m sure that she’s not too keen on that either.”</p>

<p>“It’s a shame. She was the only woman who showed promise to handle you.” David smiled sadly and silently added, “And that was exactly why you ruined it.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
