<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>17. Welcome to the Woods</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="17-welcome-to-the-woods">17. Welcome to the Woods</h1>

<p>“Jesus, David, put the gun down! It’s me, Joe!” Hartman yelped, holding his free hand up in the air.</p>

<p>“For fuck’s sake, Joe!” David Donnelly lowered the shotgun. Out of seemingly nowhere, Joe had that feeling of deja vu.</p>

<p>“For crying out loud, what are you doing in my pickup?! And if you don’t mind me saying, why do you look like utter shit?” David said while he helped Joe out of his precarious situation, being still partly tied to the straps on the truck’s bed.</p>

<p>“I wish I had been <em>in</em> your pickup, not on it,” Joe said as he eased himself onto the ground.</p>

<p>David stood before him in his plaid flannel shirt, looking like a lumberjack, and eyed him warily. “Well, whatever is behind this, don’t tell me it’s another scorned woman.”</p>

<p>“Hell has no fury… I wished it was as simple as this, Dave.”</p>

<p>David arched his left eyebrow and waited for Joe to continue.</p>

<p>“The FBI tried to arrest me for murder, while three thugs simultaneously tried to snatch me. Grenades were flying, but I somehow managed to bail and ended up here. Also, there was a woman, but it was Emily, and that was like the only good part of this crappy day.”</p>

<p>David let out a deep, good-natured laugh and helped Joe to his feet, shaking his head in disbelief.</p>

<p>“Sounds like a bat-shit crazy story… But are you sure you didn’t get a concussion or two from riding in my truck bed? Anyways, let’s clean you up, and then we can figure things out, okay?”</p>

<hr />

<p>„Well, that’s some awkward shit,“ David summarized the situation dryly after Joe had told him about the events today. They sat at the dark wooden table next to the kitchenette, a cup of dark coffee in each man’s hand. The steel fronts of the freezer and oven stood out from the rest of the cabin’s warm, honey-toned color, which looked like it was completely constructed of pine wood. The rustic aesthetic and cozy setting starkly contrasted the thoughts that whirled through Joe’s mind.</p>

<p>“You’ve got to believe me, Dave. I haven’t done anything wrong, anything at all.”</p>

<p>David looked at his friend, who was now sporting one of his spare flannel shirts and had a white band-aid sticking to his forehead.</p>

<p>“Sure I do. You might be a dick at times, but you’re no killer. The question, however, is not what I think. The question is what the FBI thinks, and no less, what the three attackers—or the people behind them—do. But it stands to reason that both are related.”</p>

<p>“True enough,” Joe said as he looked into his coffee. “And why did SENTINEL conclude that I did it.”</p>

<p>“Well, that’s your area of expertise. Sorry to quote you here, but it’s all in the data, right?”</p>

<p>“About that,” Joe said as he rummaged in his daypack and produced the slim silver memory pack, “data is actually all I have.”</p>

<p>David nodded and stood up. He walked over to a cabinet and returned with a gun-metal grey laptop.</p>

<p>“Wow, you finally got internet in the woods?” Joe asked excitedly.</p>

<p>“No, buddy, ain’t possible here. The valley and the trees block everything over the air. That’s why I built my cabin here in the first place, you remember? And no cables are going down here, either. Produce my own power, pump my own water.</p>

<p>“Sure, I could set up some StarConnect stuff on the roof, but honestly, why would I want to do that?”</p>

<p>Joe could understand David’s logic but was frustrated nonetheless. “It would have been nice, for, you know, analyzing the damn data…?!”</p>

<p>“Joe, is using another remote AI wise? I mean, at least one artificial intelligence brought you into this situation. And I’m sure you believe you can set everything up securely, but what if you’re still traced back? Do you want to risk advertising your location to the FBI or your bearded friends with the grenades?”</p>

<hr />

<p>After some reflection, Joe conceded that David had made a point. So, he would have to wrangle the data himself, using the tools Dave had available on his computer and coding the necessary scripts himself, even if his Python was a bit rusty. Some time ago, he had been actually writing code himself, not having it generated by yet another AI. He had to get back to basics, he supposed.</p>

<p>After helping David carry supplies from the truck into the cabin and unload the hydro-generator, he settled on the dark cushion of the wooden mission-style sofa, which stood next to the glass doors leading to the porch. He opened the computer, plugged in the memory pack, and sighed.</p>

<p>He would start with exploratory data analysis to better understand the dataset, plotting graphs and distributions to uncover any immediate patterns or outliers. In the end, it boiled down to sifting through the noise to find the signal hidden in the vast amounts of data.</p>

<p>David grabbed his truck’s keys from the kitchen table. “I’m going back to Boston and try to get more background information. I’ll also link up with Emily. You’re not alone with this, Joe.”</p>

<p>After a moment, he returned with his Remington 870 and walked over to Joe, whose eyes went wide with recognition at the sight of the shotgun.</p>

<p>“You know how to handle this?”</p>

<p>“Uhm, no, not really. Not a usual sight in Boston.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, but we’re in Maine, buddy, and it’s a staple around here,” said David, holding the gun sideways so Joe could take a better look.</p>

<p>“Here’s the safety,” he pointed to a button at the rear of the trigger guard. “Push it right to fire, left to safe. Remember, ‘Red, you’re dead.’</p>

<p>“Hold it firmly to your shoulder. It kicks like a mule. Pump the fore-end back and forth to chamber the next round.”</p>

<p>Joe took the shotgun with a mix of respect and fascination, toggled the safety for testing, and laid it on the coffee table.</p>

<p>“Do you really think I need this, Dave?”</p>

<p>“Better safe than sorry. But don’t point it at the FBI. That’ll end badly.”</p>

<hr />

<p>After both men said their goodbyes, Joe made another cup of strong coffee. Just as he started to go through the data structure on the memory pack, he heard a noise outside the cabin.</p>

<p>“Shit,” he muttered to himself and grabbed the gun that was still resting on the coffee table. He made his way quickly to the door, avoiding the large windows.</p>

<p>He waited for a minute, but there was only silence. Cautiously, he opened the door and peered outside. Nothing.</p>

<p>He slowly stepped out the door, pressing the shotgun to his shoulder as David had shown him.</p>

<p>There it was again, the noise, like breaking twigs. A deer bull was looking back at him as startled as Joe himself and quickly vanished into the woods.</p>

<p>Joe took a deep breath of the chilly air. It smelled of pine and earth.</p>

<p>Not for the first time this day, Joe asked himself, “What have I gotten myself into?” </p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
