<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>30. Barn Door</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="30-barn-door">30. Barn Door</h1>

<p>As the sun faded, his face only lit by the open laptop, Joe Hartman stared at the screen, captivated by a potential backdoor in the AI chips powering countless devices. The implications of a hidden communications channel were staggering.</p>

<p>There were no traces of the data packets exchanged between the cars’ AIs, leaving Joe to ponder how many other devices were already communicating in the dark. It was as if Bolt had cunningly embedded this capability into the chips, evading detection. </p>

<p>Joe, not a hardware specialist, speculated that nanotechnology and novel materials facilitated this. Physics dictated a direct connection confined to a few meters, explaining the ripple effect from the cars&apos; data. The first cars targeted Victim Zero, suggesting a deliberate initial signal.</p>

<p>Whoever attacked the young man willingly accepted the resulting casualties as collateral damage. Joe felt sick and had to admit that he totally believed Bolt was capable of such a move. “I should have stopped him when I had the chance,” he muttered, recalling Bolt’s time in his research group.</p>

<p>Joe stood up to turn on the lights but was startled to see movement on the dirt road leading to the wooden cabin.</p>

<p>He quickly switched the lights off again and grabbed the pump gun that David had left with him. Looking around for cover in panic, he decided to duck next to the stove in the cooking area, which was a few feet left of the door. He heard a car coming to a stop, and a door slammed shut.</p>

<p>As the cabin door opened, he aimed the gun over the stove, his heart pounding.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Anybody home?” David Donnelly asked as he switched on the light in the dark cabin.</p>

<p>“Jeez, Dave!” Joe Hartman lowered the gun, sweat on his forehead.</p>

<p>&quot;You seem jumpy. Thought the woods would calm you,&quot; David said, smiling.</p>

<p>&quot;Not much chance to relax,&quot; Joe replied, weakly smiling back.</p>

<p>&quot;Help me unload the truck, then we&apos;ll compare notes.&quot; David held up a six-pack of Samuel Adams Lager.</p>

<p>For the first time that day, Joe felt not totally lost anymore.</p>

<hr />

<p>After setting up the antenna for his radio frequency tracker, David took two bottles of Sam Adams from the fridge.</p>

<p>Sitting at the wooden kitchen table with their bottles before them, Joe looked at David. “How’s Emily keeping up?”</p>

<p>“Pretty well, I must say. Tough young lady she is.”</p>

<p>“I’m sorry I dragged her into this,” Joe said, looking distant.</p>

<p>“It wasn’t your fault. What could you have done differently?”</p>

<p>“Many things, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p>“There’s truth,” David said while intently studying the label of his beer.</p>

<p>“Above all, I should have dealt with Jason Bolt when I had the chance.”</p>

<p>David perked up. “Why do you say this? You looked so downbeat when I arrived that I didn’t want to ask until we sat, but have you found anything?”</p>

<p>“Much more than I ever wanted to, actually. Dave, you won’t believe this, but it seems that Bolt builds a backdoor into the AI chips he produces. You remember we talked about swarming? Well, seems he’s done it.”</p>

<p>David was taken aback. “Walk me through it, Joe.”</p>

<p>Joe opened the laptop and explained how he found the backdoor.</p>

<p>After taking a long swig from his bottle, David looked his old friend in the eyes.</p>

<p>“This is fucking huge. This is no backdoor; this is a wide-open barn door. And all in the hands of a psychopath who just killed two dozen people as collateral damage.”</p>

<p>“And it sounds utterly crazy. I mean, if I go to the public with this, nobody will believe me, the mad scientist who is the primary subject himself.”</p>

<p>“Don’t get me wrong, Joe, but that would be the best-case scenario. The worst case is that they do believe you. It would cause outright panic and public unrest. Nothing can be trusted anymore. Hospitals, planes, banks, your phone, absolutely nothing.”</p>

<p>Both men sat together in silence for what seemed like an eternity.</p>

<p>“Do you think Bolt manipulated FBI’s SENTINEL to cover up his tracks?” David asked, his voice coarse.</p>

<p>“I’m not sure. It could be. It could be something entirely different. Remember I was at the initial briefing at the FBI? Maybe it was just this—wrong time and wrong place.”</p>

<p>“Or Jason found out you had the data and got worried you might steer the investigation toward him. He’s pretty much aware that you’re not his biggest fan,” David said, scratching his chin. “When the two FBI Agents were questioning me, they asked me specifically after your relationship with Bolt.</p>

<p>“But what really scares me is that both possible explanations would mean that there is much more going on at the FBI than an AI miscalculation.”</p>

<p>Joe solemnly nodded. “I never expected to become a conspiracy theorist. And now I feel like one of the main characters in the craziest of all.”</p>

<hr />

<p>“I know it’s dicey, but we must talk to Emmy. Tell her how dangerous the situation is,” Joe pleaded with David.</p>

<p>“Yep, we need to do that, but not from here. I know a small brewery a few miles down the interstate. It’s always busy, and there are no cameras. Hank, the owner, is all about free speech and he’s got free public Wi-Fi, too.”</p>

<p>“I bet he doesn’t also offer free beer, does he?”</p>

<p>“That would indeed be too good to be true,” David laughed.</p>

<p>“So, how do you want to play this?”</p>

<p>“We take the laptop and set up a virtual private network that routes the data through enough hops around the world to make it hard to trace back. Then, we use the encrypted messenger app to make a voice call.”</p>

<p>Joe thought a moment about the setup. “How do we make sure the computer doesn’t send hidden data elsewhere? Just thinking of the backdoor.”</p>

<p>“Good point. The laptop has no AI chips on board, and we must be thorough with the firewall settings. The rest is praying to the Elders of the Internet.”</p>

<p>Joe shook his head but also had to smile. Finally, he shrugged and agreed to the plan.</p>

<p>Both men gathered the stuff they needed. Joe was grateful for the warm jacket David had brought for him as he stepped out into the chilly and dark night. Soon after both had settled into their seats, David’s truck’s engine started to rumble.</p>

<p>Only a minute after the truck’s backlights vanished into the dark, the radio scanner in the cabin started to beep urgently. But it remained unheard.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
