<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>41. Missions</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="41-missions">41. Missions</h1>

<p>“What can I do for you, Sir?” Helen Koop looked tensely at her tablet, still processing that the Attorney General had asked for a private conversation. William Banks was smiling at her. The former Governor of Arizona was still under forty and handsome, with a sharp intellect, and well-connected in his party. The stuff future presidents were made of, Helen thought, which added to her unease.</p>

<p>“Thank you for your time, Helen. I imagine you are pretty tied up with the Hartman case, so let’s get to the point. I understand you know Hartman personally?”</p>

<p>“Well, we’ve met on a few occasions. He’s one of the leading experts on complex systems. I mean, he was…”</p>

<p>“And that’s why you asked him to your initial briefing on the Georgetown massacre,” Banks said as a statement rather than a question.</p>

<p>Koop answered anyway. “Of course, if I had known what I knew today, I wouldn’t have brought him into the meeting.”</p>

<p>“But then again, SENTINEL wouldn’t have identified him so quickly, so I suppose we have to thank you.”</p>

<p>“If you put it this way,” Helen said, wary of where this was going.</p>

<p>“Still, I wonder if you believe Hartman was truly capable of committing such a crime, apart from SENTINEL.”</p>

<p>“To be honest, a lot of us were surprised. But then again, it makes sense, although I still have questions.”</p>

<p>“So do I, Assistant Director. I would find it unfortunate if this were going in the wrong direction, and the people responsible would get away with this atrocity.” He paused and leaned in, looking sternly at her.</p>

<p>Helen felt a chill. “I assure you I will do whatever it takes to hold them accountable. Do you think Hartman had help?”</p>

<p>“Easy, Helen. I don’t know what to think,” Banks smiled warmly at her. “But I noted some strange coincidences here and there. Decisions that could have been nudged. It’s like somebody is pulling strings. But I can’t see the bigger picture, which disturbs me.”</p>

<p>Helen Koop nodded. “I understand that sentiment, Sir.”</p>

<p>“Okay, I don’t want to keep you. Look, I just sent you my personal contact details. If you come across anything you think I should know, don’t hesitate to use them,” he said and held his phone into the camera.</p>

<p>After the call had ended, Helen Koop rubbed her eyes. Whatever Bank’s motives were, a direct line to the Attorney General could be useful. But she had to tread carefully as this had just become a completely different kind of power game.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Clear my calendar for the next forty-eight hours, Vesta,” Rebecca Hayes instructed her virtual assistant, shuffling papers on her university desk.</p>

<p>“You have an appointment with the Dean tomorrow at 09:00 AM. Shall I cancel it?” Vesta asked in a pleasant tone.</p>

<p>“Nothing’s going to keep me,” she muttered, glancing at the stack of printouts.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry, but I didn’t understand your last instruction.”</p>

<p>Rebecca sighed, feeling a twinge of frustration. “Adjourn the meeting with Dean Rodriguez to his earliest convenience. I’m taking two days off to get my daughter home.”</p>

<p>As Vesta confirmed the adjustments, Rebecca&apos;s thoughts drifted to Maria. Her daughter needed her help after Georgetown. Nothing was more important now. </p>

<p>“If I should ever get my hands on that fucker responsible for Georgetown, I’m going to make him pay.”</p>

<p>“The person responsible for the Georgetown massacre is Professor Joseph Hartman,” Vesta chirped helpfully.</p>

<p>“That’s the one,” Rebecca Hayes snarled, her brows tightly knit.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
