<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>18. Addressing the Nation</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="18-addressing-the-nation">18. Addressing the Nation</h1>

<p>Emily Stone was watching the live feed from the White House on her tablet. The app showed a little white checkmark in a blue circle with a red outline, indicating that this was real imagery by the U.S. government, not generated or altered by AI or other technology. For what it’s worth, the checkmark was protected by federal law, and using it unauthorized was a felony.</p>

<p>She saw President Robert Weston looking into the cameras sternly, sitting behind his desk in the Oval Office.</p>

<p>“My fellow Americans, today I speak to you in the aftermath of a harrowing event that unfolded 48 hours ago on the bustling streets of Georgetown—an event that has tested not only our resolve but also our faith in the technology that shapes our future. Autonomous vehicles, symbols of progress and innovation, were turned against us in a deliberate and heinous act of terror. This was not a failure of technology but a calculated assault on our way of life by individuals who wish to see us falter.”</p>

<p>Emily tensed. She knew that this framing would rally the media and public, with potentially dire consequences for Joe.</p>

<p>“First and foremost, I want to assure the nation that our law enforcement agencies are working tirelessly to bring those responsible to justice. The swift and decisive action taken by our police forces undoubtedly saved countless lives. This act of bravery, while effective, also serves as a stark reminder of the dangers we face in an interconnected world.”</p>

<p>Emily shook her head. One officer did the right thing, throwing the EMP grenade, and she was grateful for that. However, at its core, SENTINEL’s allegations against Joe demonstrated the reliance on artificial intelligence even in investigations dealing with malfunctioning AI. What a crazy irony.</p>

<p>“We have classified this devastating event as a terrorist attack. It is crucial to understand that the technology itself is not to blame; it was misused and manipulated by individuals with malicious intent. The AI that powers our daily lives—from the way we communicate to how we work and the methods by which we travel—is built on a foundation of trust and security. Our administration has been at the forefront of advancing these technologies, investing heavily in the AI chip industry to ensure that America remains a beacon of innovation on the global stage.</p>

<p>“Let me be clear: AI can and should be trusted. The actions of a few will not deter us from our path forward. We will continue to subsidize and support the AI industry, doubling down on our commitment to making America the leading AI nation in the world. Our dedication to this cause is unwavering, and we will take every necessary step to ensure the safety and security of our technology infrastructure.”</p>

<p>Taking a sip of her now lukewarm coffee, Emily noticed that the President’s speech was directed not only at the American people but also at investors and the stock markets, perhaps even more so at the latter.</p>

<p>“To the American people, I ask for your trust and vigilance. Trust in the measures we take to secure our nation and the technologies that will propel us into a future of unparalleled potential. And be vigilant, for the strength of our nation lies not only in our technological advancements but in the resilience and unity of its people.”</p>

<p>Her tablet chimed, and a notification popped up. Her editor, Julia Sanchez, asked if she watched Weston’s speech. Of course, she did. Her jaw clenched at the thought of facing her again soon.</p>

<p>“In the coming days, we will convene with industry leaders, technology experts, and law enforcement agencies to review our security protocols and ensure such an attack can never happen again. We will emerge from this stronger and more united, with a renewed commitment to a future where technology serves as a force for good.”</p>

<p>Weston leaned closer to the camera to emphasize his message.</p>

<p>“To those who seek to harm us, let this be a message: America will not be intimidated. We will defend our values, our way of life, and the technologies that have made us great. Together, we will overcome this challenge, as we have overcome so many before, and continue to lead the world into a new era of prosperity and peace.</p>

<p>“Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.”</p>

<p>And with that, POTUS was replaced with the presidential seal on the feed’s window. To Emily, it seemed Weston didn’t say anything apart from the usual buzzwords required of a situation like this; it may well be enough to calm the American souls. Most people don’t care what technology does behind the scenes. It should just work, and they should be left alone with the details. AI had become so interwoven into the lives of the industrialized nations of the globe that it was more a commodity than anything else. Although this thought made Emily uncomfortable, this was the reality outside academic or certain political circles. Even the speech sounded conspicuously like it was AI-generated.</p>

<p>On the one hand, she was relieved that it didn’t mention Joe as the suspect, but the tone it had set worried her all the same: “Terrorist attack.” That didn’t bode well for Joe Hartman. </p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
