<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>8. Suspect</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="8-suspect">8. Suspect</h1>

<p>Alex Mercer placed his trainers neatly in the locker. When he got the message, he had just returned from an extended run through Rock Creek Park. There would be another briefing on the killing cars, and personal presence was required. It wasn’t unusual for those briefings to be in person only due to the various security considerations in high-stakes cases like this one. After a quick shower, he got dressed and locked the locker with his badge, which had an NFC chip. The badge also worked as a key using Near Field Communication, giving the holder extra access rights and adding another layer of security to biometric locks. Looking forward to the new developments, he made his way to the conference room just before the briefing started.</p>

<p>“Here we go again,” Jake greeted his partner with another cup of coffee. “I hope you had no other plans for tonight,” Mercer said as he took the cup from his friend. He knew that Jake’s wife, April, and their two kids had planned to go out for dinner with him. </p>

<p>“Well, aren’t we always on duty? But still, I hope it’s worth it.”</p>

<p>“At least it looks like we are going to be spared another lecture by Hartman,” Mercer noticed as the brass entered the room, this time without civilian backup.</p>

<p>“You two had a thing going on, haven’t you? It was a bit hard to ignore, Alex. There was some chemistry between you, alright,” Jake joked. He knew the moment the professor walked up to the lantern a few hours ago that this was the type to annoy Mercer. His partner was the ground-to-earth type who valued men and women who owned a problem when they saw one. Hartman seemed far from it on all accounts.</p>

<p>“Listen up, everyone. We’ve got a major update,” Assistant Director Helen Koop declared to the packed room. “I know there’s been skepticism about our new AI, but SENTINEL delivered—in an unexpected way, I must add. However, this proves that analyzing the data was definitely the right call.”</p>

<p>The large display changed to show an image of Joe Hartman. “Not him again,” Mercer mumbled, and Jake rolled his eyes.</p>

<p>Koop stopped and cleared her throat to silence the murmuring in the room. Hartman clearly left a strong impact on the agents, although it wasn’t the most positive one.</p>

<p>“The man was standing right next to us, and no one had any clue. However, we can’t ignore SENTINEL’s analysis. Our main suspect for the Washington attack is Joseph Hartman.” And with this, the room full of seasoned professionals erupted into chaos.</p>

<p>Helen Koop watched the discussions and gave them some time. She saw the agents’ emotions range from disbelief and shock to acceptance. That was her own journey as well. Her initial reaction was plain disbelief. However, after reading the assessment, she found that it well aligned with her uneasy feeling after her last exchange with Hartman. Nevertheless, it still left many questions open to her, but she didn’t show them. There would be a time to answer them.</p>

<p>“Well, your instincts about Hartman were obviously right,” Jake said, still processing the information.</p>

<p>“My instincts were telling me Hartman was a jerk, not a cold-blooded killer. I call bullshit, and I can’t believe you think otherwise. There’s something wrong with that guy, no question. But that doesn’t fit. No way.”</p>

<p>“We don’t know about motive yet, we don’t know how SENTINEL figured it out, it could have been an accident, negligence, whatever.”</p>

<p>“Exactly, and now the whole machinery is set into motion, based on what exactly?” Mercer was shaking his head in disbelief. What about due process and evidence standards?</p>

<hr />

<p>The meeting adjourned, and Mercer exchanged a look with Jake. They both knew how serious the situation was, but they also had a lot of questions. The agents filed out, but Mercer and Lin were among those asked to stay behind. Maybe now they would get some answers.</p>

<p>The agent in charge, Tom Edwards, resumed the briefing but focused solely on Hartman’s planned arrest.</p>

<p>“Guys, I know you have questions, but details about how the attack was carried out are on a need-to-know basis right now.”</p>

<p>Mercer, who did his share of special operations as a ranger, understood operational security very well. But this was the FBI, and he expected more than a number an algorithm had spit out for an arrest.</p>

<p>“So now we’re talking about an attack,” Jake whispered in Mercer’s ear, who was slowly shaking his head.</p>

<p>“What we know is that Hartman returned to Boston an hour ago. The Boston Field Office is preparing to go after him as soon as possible, but we also want to be on site. Mercer, Lin, you meet with me on the helipad in 10. Gear up.”</p>

<p>The first agents got moving and Alex stepped over to Edwards.</p>

<p>“Tom, what’s this? We are going out because Koop’s chatbot told us so without proper investigation or recon. We’re now some glorified errand boys with a badge doing what a computer tells us, or what?”</p>

<p>“Stop whining, Mercer, and saddle up,” Edwards said as he checked on his watch.</p>

<hr />

<p>Thirty minutes later, they were on the way to Boston in a silent, matte black electric chopper, watching the city lights flicker below in the clear, chilly night.</p>

<p>Wordlessly, Edwards handed Mercer a tablet with a summary of SENTINEL’s report. The brief covered several points that checked all the boxes: Hartman’s expertise in AI and his involvement in the development of the traffic network, indicators of a narcissistic personality disorder, and various biometrical and behavioral indicators observed during the briefing a few hours ago. Analysis of footage from in-room cameras had revealed strong emotions that Hartman had attempted to conceal, with his breathing and heart rate showing patterns of evasion, anger, and guilt. Mercer silently handed the tablet back to Edwards with a nod, grateful that Tom had given him a glimpse of what was going on. The report sounded conclusive on its own; Mercer had to admit that. However, despite not being a friend of the professor, this still didn’t sit right with him.</p>

<p>But one thing was clear now. He understood well why the brass was so reluctant to reveal the details. The fact that the FBI was also capturing footage and analyzing the participants of internal meetings was news, and not in a good way. He wondered what SENTINEL’s watchful eyes might have revealed about him. And what it meant for the bureau. Integrity was always part of what the letters FBI stood for, but now it seemed that trust was replaced by technology, which bothered him even more than Hartman’s role in the case.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
