<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>35. Out of Reservation</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="35-out-of-reservation">35. Out of Reservation</h1>

<p>Alex Mercer was sitting at a simple white desk in the FBI Boston Field Office, reviewing the case information on the Georgetown incident supplied by SENTINEL. The open-plan office was quiet at this time of day, which made it easier to concentrate. Mercer switched the user interface to expert mode to see the data and its relationships as SENTINEL analyzed and tagged them, not the simple chat mode that was the standard way to interact with the system. He always felt uneasy without seeing the underlying data, like the system was a black box.</p>

<p>He found it puzzling that Jason Bolt only appeared as a witness based on the transcript of the interview he had conducted with him earlier today but not related to his role as the main supplier of AI onboard chips, which surely were also to be found in most of the ‘killing cars’ that went rampage on M Street.</p>

<p>His phone vibrated and announced a text message that he read with a hint of a smile: “Meet me ASAP, E.” The location data for a hotel was attached, and he saw on the map application that it was a short drive there.</p>

<p>“Well, that was fast,” he said to himself as he typed a reply: “In 15.” After the picture of Joe Hartman went viral on all channels, he had expected a reaction from Emily Stone. He briefly considered calling his partner Jake Lin, who was spending the night with his family but refrained from doing so for this exact reason. If he was going to speak to the new public enemy number one off the record, he didn’t want to drag his friend into it.</p>

<p>He automatically checked the magazine of his Glock 17 service weapon and holstered it back as he went for the elevator. He might have been open to Hartman’s innocence, but he also firmly believed in being always prepared. And with Brennan’s team in the picture, the professor might not be the biggest threat.</p>

<p>Fifteen minutes later, he pulled over his black 1968 Ford Mustang in front of the address Emily Stone had sent him. He was grateful that his private car had no AI onboard, giving him much more freedom. Mercer believed the insurance premium for this perk was serious but worth every cent.</p>

<p>He found Emily standing in front of the building, gripping her backpack straps, her eyes shadowed with worry.</p>

<p>“I’m unsure if this is a huge mistake, Alex.”</p>

<p>“Me neither, Emily. I mean, being here obviously violates at least five department guidelines,” he answered with a weak smile.</p>

<p>He sensed her growing uneasiness and added, “Here’s the deal: we’ll be fine as long as Hartman, you, or Donnelly don’t cross me. I might have to take Hartman in for the public&apos;s safety … or his. But not until I hear his story. I&apos;ll treat him as innocent until proven guilty, alright?”</p>

<p>He held out his hand, and after a moment of hesitation, Emily shook it.</p>

<p>“You need to leave your phone here. I will do the same. We can’t be tracked to Joe’s location.”</p>

<p>Now, Mercer hesitated a moment, but finally, he agreed, and they both went inside to hand over the phones to the concierge to keep them safe.</p>

<hr />

<p>Mercer and Emily drove in silence on Interstate 95. After briefly discussing Emily’s findings on General Clayton and his daughter Sarah, they agreed that it was Joe’s turn to explain what he had discovered to Alex.</p>

<p>Lost in thought, they watched the trees blur past. Mercer checked the mirrors constantly, wary of any tail in the darkness. He had also stopped a couple of times in resting areas to lose any tail, but there weren’t any guarantees he had been successful.</p>

<p>Finally, after consulting her black notebook, then directed Mercer off the Interstate onto smaller, more isolated roads leading to David’s cabin.</p>

<p>“This is it, then. After half a mile, we should see David’s cabin,” Emily said and looked to Mercer.</p>

<p>“Well, that’s as remote as it comes,” he bent forward to get a better look at the dense canopy of trees. He slowly drove on, uncertain of what to expect at the end of the road.</p>

<hr />

<p>“I can see lights down the road,” David said from the window where he had been standing for the last hour keeping watch.</p>

<p>Joe looked up from his laptop, where he’d been vainly searching the memory pack for traces of the swarming technology. He was acutely aware that his theory was intriguing for people with a background in artificial intelligence but probably not very convincing for an FBI agent who would want to see some cold, hard proof.</p>

<p>At first, he had been sulking on the way from the tavern where David and Emily had basically decided about his fate. But then again, any plan was better than doing nothing. After he regained control over his emotions, he agreed with his friends’ analysis; his best chance to stay alive was to convince Mercer that something much bigger was at play.</p>

<p>“They’ve pulled over, and the lights inside the car are on. I can see Emily and the Fed, Mercer,” David reported, holding his field glasses.</p>

<p>“Alright, let’s do this,” Joe muttered under his breath and gave David a thumbs up.</p>

<p>Slowly, David opened the door, showing his empty hands, field glasses dangling around his neck.</p>

<p>Mercer opened the door of his Mustang and got out, mirroring David’s gesture, while Emily emerged from the passenger seat.</p>

<p>“Welcome to the woods,” David said and forced a smile, beckoning the two to come inside.</p>

<p>Joe waited anxiously for them to enter the cabin, his forehead covered with beads of sweat and his heart racing so loud in his ears he couldn’t even hear Emily’s and Mercer’s steps.</p>

<hr />

<p>Meanwhile, in Boston, Mercer’s and Jake Lin’s phones chimed at the same time. It was a notification from PHOENIX, the FBI’s internal platform for background investigations, physical access, and security clearances.</p>

<p>Jake rose from the family table, his face blanching as he read: “Status Update: You are temporarily suspended pending an FBI Security Division (SecD) investigation. Surrender your badge and service weapon immediately. All FBI facilities and systems access are terminated. Refrain from discussing this matter with anyone outside the official channels. Await further communication from SecD.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
