<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>42. Linking up</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="42-linking-up">42. Linking up</h1>

<p>After leaving the FBI building, Jake Lin needed coffee and a hearty breakfast. After a short walk, he entered one of his favorites, “The Anvil.” He looked up at the ceiling, which featured a mix of wood panels and glossy white tiles, reflecting the soft, warm lighting from the overhead globe-shaped chandeliers. The walls were adorned with white subway tiles, and large, darkly framed windows lined one side of the restaurant. </p>

<p>Jake got seated at one of the dark wooden tables, still thinking about his friend and partner. Absentmindedly, he opened the menu and wondered what had happened to Alex in the last twelve hours. The video footage of the burnt-down cabin in Maine where Joe Hartman supposedly died in an attempt to prepare explosives for another attack made him more suspicious than ever. Why would an alleged mastermind that manipulated AIs easily to transform autonomous cars into killing machines need to tinker with a few kilograms of C4? And where did he get it in the first place? This all didn’t add up in his professional opinion. But it made a hell of a story on social media, as he noticed when overhearing a man on the next table recording a video of himself musing about the dramatic end of the murderous professor from Boston. People were so easily played. But in a few hours, maybe days, when the forensics were finished, it would become clear what happened in Maine — or not.</p>

<p>When he looked up from the selection of breakfasts, his unconsciousness caught something on the edge of his vision outside on the street. He wasn’t sure what it was, but his heart started beating faster. Following his instincts, he dropped the menu and jumped on his feet.</p>

<hr />

<p>When the coffee was ready, Joe Hartman grabbed two mugs and went outside to the small clearing where David Donnelly had prepared the small StarConnect device to allow them to go online. He found David sitting in the shadow of a tree, leaning at its trunk, his eyes closed.</p>

<p>“Thanks for the coffee, man,” David said without opening them.</p>

<p>“How did you know it was me?” Joe asked and lowered himself next to him.</p>

<p>“When you trust all your senses, you get much more information than what the eyes see,” David answered, gratefully accepting the coffee.</p>

<p>“You seem to be a man of many talents, Dave. I must say, I’m a bit surprised.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, I noticed. Things are not always what they seem, which is even more true for people. But I’m your friend, Joe, and you need to trust me. Our history made us who we are today, and I’m no different. When this is all over, I’ll try to answer all your questions, but now we need to focus. Today isn’t about absolute truths, if those even exist, but surviving. You need to trust me, Joe. Can you do this?”</p>

<p>Joe thought about the years he had been friends with David. Not once had he been disappointed by him. Maybe it was about time to trust his feelings. His eyes went to the cabin, where Emily stood in the doorframe with her coffee, waving at him guardedly when their eyes met.</p>

<p>“Yes. Yes, I can do this, Dave,” Joe said, still looking at Emily. David, who had been watching him, smiled.</p>

<p>The indicator, blinking red for the last twenty minutes, suddenly switched to green, signaling that StarConnect had uplinked with one of the satellites above them.</p>

<p>“Here we go,” David said, putting his smart glasses back on.</p>

<hr />

<p>A few patrons looked up from their devices as Jake Lin scrambled out of the restaurant. Scanning the street left and right, the steady flow of pedestrians made it harder to spot what had alerted him.</p>

<p>A few paces away, he noticed a man looking into a store window, having something vaguely familiar about him. Once Jake moved in his direction, the man briskly walked away and turned right into a small alley. Jake quickly checked his Glock 17 in his holster and followed the man, trying not to attract too much attention from cameras and their crowd control algorithms. When he entered the shaded alley, he noticed that there wasn’t any surveillance—a good spot for any business that should remain undetected then. The man he had followed here slowly turned around.</p>

<p>“Whoa, what happened to your face?” Jake asked, surprised.</p>

<p>“You should see the other guy,” Alex Mercer answered with a lopsided grin, his face still swollen and bruised in a dark purple where the carbine’s buttstock had connected with his temple.</p>

<p>Both men shook hands. “I thought I had a shitty night, but yours looks worse. What’s the gist?”</p>

<p>As Mercer summarized the events since they last spoke, Jake constantly shook his head.</p>

<p>“This is the craziest shit I’ve ever heard, Alex!”</p>

<p>“Affirmative. Totally fucked up. So how about you?”</p>

<p>“Uhh, a walk in the park, actually. We got suspended last night, my wife threatened to divorce me, and a few hours ago, I was called in by Koop and reinstated. But I feel this was on purpose, just using me to get to you… Shit,” Jake said and looked around the still lonely and calm alley.</p>

<p>“No worries, that was to be expected. And it’s a good thing that you’re back in the game. Listen, there’s something I need you to do.”</p>

<hr />

<p>David Donnelly was scrolling through the feeds on his smart glasses with a quick gesture of his right hand while Joe Hartman and Emily Stone stood beside him a few meters away from the StarConnect device.</p>

<p>“So, it looks like you’re dead, Joe,” David said, and Joe frowned.</p>

<p>“Social media and news outlets have it that you blew yourself up while cobbling together a killer drone with a few pounds of plastic explosives,” David explained.</p>

<p>“But isn’t that a good thing if they believe Joe is dead?” Emily asked.</p>

<p>“Only as long as nobody wants to make sure, he stays that way,” David replied, looking directly at her.</p>

<p>“This is a red herring, I agree,” Joe said thoughtfully, scratching the stubble on his chin. “It fits into Bolt’s scheme of paving the way for his greater plan, whatever it is. I’m dead; the case is solved. It would be pretty unfortunate if I turned up somewhere and claimed otherwise.</p>

<p>“It’s a thin story as well; this only holds as long as there is no thorough forensic investigation of the cabin.”</p>

<p>“Well, it looks like the drones had some Thermite in the mix for good measure. It burns hot enough to melt through anything. Classic overkill if you want no traces left behind.” David said, looking sickly pale.</p>

<p>“That’s the handwriting of Bolt if you ask me,” Joe said.</p>

<p>“And if you ask me, there are too many people running around trying to kill you and, by extension, us,” Emily stepped up to him.</p>

<p>“We must take our chances and make a strong ally to stop this. Any information about Mercer?” She looked at David.</p>

<p>“Nothing in the public feeds, but honestly, he’s just one rogue FBI agent. That won’t be enough, even if he got out of Beavercreek alive.”</p>

<p>Joe swallowed. “There’s only one logical conclusion.”</p>

<p>“Care to expand?” David asked, taking off his smart glasses.</p>

<p>“Someone with the means and the motive to stop Bolt,” Joe said, unsure if he liked where his own reasoning was going.</p>

<p>“The General. Clayton,” Emily completed his thought.</p>

<p>David looked at some distant point for a moment and cleared his throat. “I’m afraid you’re right.”</p>

<p>“But how do we get to him?” Emily asked wearily.</p>

<p>“We’ll call in the cavalry,” David answered and put the smart glasses back on.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
