<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>20. Interview</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="20-interview">20. Interview</h1>

<p>David Donnelly had some time to think while driving back to his home in Somerville. It wasn’t beyond Joe to have unwittingly played some part in this, but he was sure Hartman did not kill anyone. On the contrary, Joe was a good man who wanted to make the world a better place. Yes, he had his quirks, but that was only human.</p>

<p>However, the FBI believed otherwise. Some data points had to let SENTINEL conclude that Joe was behind the attacks. But how? That was probably a question for another day. As an engineer, he was trained to think in categories of cause and effect, action and reaction. He found it hard to accept the apparent fuzziness inherent to AI’s reasoning. </p>

<p>So he concentrated on the big questions: What caused the autonomous cars to wreak havoc and kill people, and why? Who were the mysterious men who tried to kidnap his friend? It stood to reason that both were related, so finding one answer could lead to the other. David wasn’t prone to conspiracy theories but was willing to make an exception in this case.</p>

<p>Even more when he spotted the two men in dark suits waiting in an unmarked car as he turned into his driveway.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Dr. David Donnelly?” David turned around and measured the two suits approaching him after he had left his truck.</p>

<p>“Who wants to know?” David asked. He pulled his keyring out of his pocket and inconspicuously formed a fist with the keys barely protruding between his fingers. Surely, it wasn’t the best weapon for self-defense, but it added a sharp edge to his punch if needed.</p>

<p>“The FBI, sir. I’m Special Agent Alexander Mercer, and this is Special Agent Jake Lin,” Mercer said while both showed their badges. “May we ask you a few questions about Joe Hartman?”</p>

<p>David relaxed subtly, nodded, and unlocked the front door. This might be a chance to get useful information after all. “Come in, Agents.”</p>

<hr />

<p>The countertop in David’s kitchen extended into a breakfast bar with seating for four. The pendant lights above them were reflected in the three large black coffees standing before the three men. Usually, David was sitting there alone, drinking his coffee - unless the table was covered with beers and cards when he and his friends played Texas Hold&apos;em on long nights.</p>

<p>“So, have you been waiting long for me, gentlemen?” David asked Alex Mercer, who was sitting opposite of him.</p>

<p>“Well, Dr. Donnelly, you know, traffic cams. Your arrival was a bit advertised. Speaking of which, how was your trip to Maine?” Mercer responded with a question of his own. David filed that away for later, hoping his stowaway hadn’t been noticed.</p>

<p>“Uneventful, Agent Mercer,” David said and smiled, “but I believe you’re here because you wanted to ask about Joe Hartman. Why are you interested in my old friend?”</p>

<p>“Dr. Hartman is part of an ongoing investigation, and we want to learn a few things about his past. How many years have you known him?” Jake answered.</p>

<p>“For thirty years, give or take. I was his father’s research assistant, and later, I mentored him when he started as a lecturer at MIT. We’re colleagues and friends, but you know this already, I suppose.”</p>

<p>“Sorry to be so blunt, but are you aware of any childhood trauma that Joe had to deal with?” Mercer asked.</p>

<p>“I’m aware that he had a hard time when his parents died in a horrible car crash. Imagine being in school, and suddenly, the director comes to your class and brings you such a message. But shouldn’t you have this on file? There was a police investigation into this, but there was no evidence of foul play as far as I remember.”</p>

<p>“Yes, we are aware of this, Dr. Donnelly. But how did Joe cope with this loss? Wasn’t he furious?” Jake asked.</p>

<p>“He was devastated! But it became a strong motivator for him to build the technology to avoid such loss and pain.” David’s emotions were now clearly visible on his face.</p>

<p>Mercer and Lin exchanged a look.</p>

<p>“But tell me, Agents, where are you going with this line of questioning?” David asked, his voice firm again.</p>

<p>“Nowhere particular, Mr. Donnelly. Can you tell us a bit about his relationship with Jason Bolt?” Mercer asked.</p>

<p>“You know what they say about Bolt being some kind of wunderkind? That’s what he was—a brilliant mind and a gifted developer. Joe saw his potential and mentored him.”</p>

<p>“But then came a fall-out?”</p>

<p>“Yes, there has been talk about unethical behavior on Bolt’s part, and Joe ended his contract as a research assistant on his team. Joe was greatly disappointed, to say the least.”</p>

<p>“And what kind of unethical behavior are we talking about?” Jake asked.</p>

<p>“I’m actually not sure because Joe never told me so much. You will have to ask him yourself, I’m afraid.”</p>

<p>“Well, we will do, Dr. Donnelly,” Mercer said and stood up. “By the way, you don’t happen to know of the whereabouts of Joe Hartman, do you?”</p>

<p>“Why should I?” David asked back.</p>

<p>“I expected as much, Dr. Donnelly. Thanks for the coffee and your time. If you get new information about Dr. Hartman, here’s my card. We will be in touch,” Alex said as he and Jake walked out.</p>

<p>“And I expected that much,” David said softly as he closed the door behind them. He rubbed his face with his left hand. Playing poker helped, but this was a high-stakes game. “I’m too old for that shit, Joe,” he said, his eyes still closed.</p>

<hr />

<p>Sitting in their car again, Jake shook his head. “I’m not quite sure who was interviewing whom here.”</p>

<p>“Yep, Donnelly was trying to gather information, and that was a message in itself. We can safely add him as a potential associate to the roster,” Mercer said while looking at the professor’s truck, which was still standing in the driveway.</p>

<p>“You think he’s had his hands in the killer cars?”</p>

<p>“Not really, but Donnelly comes across as a man of action. And those hillbilly vibes? If somebody told me he was part of a terrorist Luddite cell, you know, those anti-technology extremists, I would be inclined to believe this. Now I feel even less convinced that Hartman is the killer.”</p>

<p>“But still, right now, we need Hartman. Remember Koop wanting our badges? I’d like to keep mine,” Jake said, raising his brows.</p>

<p>“Fair enough. But Jake,” Mercer looked his friend in the eyes, “our job is to catch the bad guys. So let’s keep our eyes and minds open, okay?”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
