<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>32. Going Public</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="32-going-public">32. Going Public</h1>

<p>Robert Weston was pacing through the Oval Office, his hands clasped behind his back.</p>

<p>“Mister President, there is only so much we can do,” said Jack McBride, the FBI director, sitting on one of the plush, cream-colored sofas. His tablet lay on the coffee table, a file opened on it.</p>

<p>Weston abruptly stopped in front of the Resolute Desk and turned to McBride.</p>

<p>“That’s hard to believe, Jack. You’re telling me that the FBI, the NSA, and everybody else is unable to find one single university professor? Aren’t we supposed to have something like complete surveillance after siphoning millions into hard- and software? Or is the man a ghost?”</p>

<p>McBride adjusted his silk Hermes tie. “I can assure you that he is very real. But he is not just any professor but one of the nation’s experts on artificial intelligence. If anybody knows how to trick our systems, it’s probably him. May I remind you that he single-handedly unleashed the cars in Georgetown on a killing spree?”</p>

<p>“I still don’t buy that, honestly,” Weston said, shaking his head.</p>

<p>“The question is probably another one,” McBride said cautiously.</p>

<p>“Please enlighten me, what is it then?”</p>

<p>“If the public buys it.” </p>

<p>McBride studied the floral patterns on the opposite wall and waited for a reaction.</p>

<p>Robert Weston deflated visibly and sat down on the other sofa, pondering the potential fallout if they failed.</p>

<p>“Yeah, I know. The polls show it. Social media analysis shows it: America wants an answer. And they need a government that delivers, Jack.”</p>

<p>“Mister President, that’s my whole point. They need a strong leader, and you are a strong leader. Let us go public with Hartman and show them how we deal with terrorists.”</p>

<p>Weston pondered his answer for a moment, then straightened his back.</p>

<p>“Okay, we go public. We go hunting. But I want a trial for Hartman. The man isn’t Osama Bin Laden. He’s an American citizen.”</p>

<p>“Who turned against us.”</p>

<p>“That’s the red line, Jack. It’s capture, not kill.” He hesitated a moment. “At least if it’s avoidable, Jack.”</p>

<p>McBride smiled thinly. “I can work with that, Mister President.”</p>

<hr />

<p>After leaving the Oval Office, Jack McBride didn’t go straight to the J. Edgar Hoover Building but ordered his driver to take him to the Reflecting Pool. The Director’s Protective Detail agents knew that McBride liked to take a walk on the National Mall after meetings with POTUS, and although it was already turning dark, this wasn’t out of the ordinary.</p>

<p>McBride signaled his bodyguards to give him room for privacy, and they widened the formation around him, scanning the surroundings for threats.</p>

<p>He took a phone from his pocket, which wasn’t government-issued, although it looked exactly the same as his official one. It was equipped with top-tier encryption and designed to be untraceable.</p>

<p>He tapped an icon on the display and was connected right away.</p>

<p>“What did Bob say?”</p>

<p>“Good afternoon to you as well, Jason,” McBride answered, already annoyed by the speaker.</p>

<p>“Yeah, whatever. So, do we have a go?”</p>

<p>“Listen, Bolt, this is not how it works. POTUS wants to put Hartman on trial. But we will go public with his name and picture. And then it has to look like he went down in an attempt to arrest him.”</p>

<p>“Alrighty. As long as he goes with a blow…”</p>

<p>McBride clenched his jaw and silently counted to five.</p>

<p>“I would be grateful if you could take this matter more seriously. I don’t know about you, but I don’t want to have our country descend into anarchy and chaos.”</p>

<p>“Me as well, Jack, me as well. I know it’s also in my company’s best interest. That’s why I’m helping you guys, okay?”</p>

<p>“Jason, I really appreciate your help. Do you know where he is right now?”</p>

<p>“Yep, the last time our drones located him, he was hanging around in the woods in Maine. I’ll send you his coordinates, and you plan the show. But one more thing, those two agents you sent to me...”</p>

<p>“What about them?”</p>

<p>“The army guy, Mercer. Looks like he’s fraternizing with the enemy, so to speak. He’s been meeting Hartman’s ex-girlfriend a few hours ago. Did you know that?”</p>

<p>“No, but I’ll take care of this.”</p>

<p>After the call had ended, Jack McBride looked at the lights in the distance. Jason Bolt was a royal pain in the ass but a useful one, at least for now.</p>

<p>He waved at his protection detail to let them know he was finished. A few minutes later, McBride settled into the soft leather back seat of the armored car. The engine’s gentle hum did little to soothe his nerves. Lost in thought, he gazed out at the darkening city on his way back to his office.</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
