<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8" />
	<title>38. Revelations</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
	<section epub:type="chapter" class="chapter">
	<h1 class="chapter-title" id="38-revelations">38. Revelations</h1>

<p>“It’s time to go,” David said with a firm voice. On the other side of the lake, the flashing red and blue lights of the Beavercreek sheriff’s and firefighters’ cars could be seen now. “We have about three minutes now.” </p>

<p>He retrieved an Eberlestock Renegade backpack, and another Remington pump gun from the manhole.</p>

<p>Joe’s eyes widened as David took military-issue smart glasses from the bag and put them on. “No worries, they are on passive mode, using GPS data, improved night vision, and some advanced object detection.”</p>

<p>Then he took out a poncho with the same camouflage pattern as the ruck and held it to Emily, who stood there in her white, although now dirty, T-shirt and beige pants. “Take this. Let’s get moving. I take the point, Joe, you’re at the rear.”</p>

<p>As they walked away into the woods at a cautious pace, Joe reflected on the last minutes. As far as Murphy’s law went, he didn’t dare to hope the worst was behind them. He looked around. The forest was dense now, and he would have been lost without David’s guidance. The trees and shrubs provided shelter and hid the unknown lurking in the dark.</p>

<p>Emily turned around and smiled nervously at Joe, her breath forming small clouds in the chilly air. Joe smiled back and nodded at her in a way he hoped to look confidently. But he was just barely able to hide his growing unease. His friend David seemed to be a different person since the drone attack.</p>

<p>“What are we going to do next?” Emily asked softly.</p>

<p>“Find a place to hide again. Then, find out what the situation is with Mercer. We need his support to stop Bolt,” Joe said and shrugged.</p>

<p>David stopped, removed, and opened his backpack. He took out three small plastic bottles. “Ketones. Taste like robot piss,” he said and looked at Emily. “Pardon my French, but they will keep us going for the next hours.”</p>

<p>Emily wrinkled her nose. “Are those safe?”</p>

<p>David took his bottle and downed it in one gulp. “It’s what your body produces when you’re starving, minus the starvation.”</p>

<p>Reluctantly, Joe took a swig and grimaced.</p>

<hr />

<p>When Alex Mercer regained consciousness, his splitting headache was fueled by a low rumbling sound. His mind felt foggy, and he struggled to piece together where he was. He tried to open his eyes, the dim light stabbing at his vision, and squinted, disoriented. The last thing he remembered was being in the cabin, the explosion, then darkness. Where was he now? His stomach lurched at a sudden downward movement, making him aware that he was moving—no, flying.</p>

<p>He forced his eyes open again, the blurry shapes around him slowly coming into focus. His head pounded with each heartbeat, and he fought against the nausea rising in his throat. The face of the man who had ambushed him came into view, strapped in a harness, smiling in a way that made Mercer’s blood boil.</p>

<p>Mercer tried to get up, but a sharp pain shot through his side, and he realized he was restrained in his seat. Panic mixed with anger as he pulled against the restraints.</p>

<p>“Easy there, Sir,” the man sitting next to his assailant said, his voice annoyingly calm, “we’re airborne, so there’s no way to leave unless you jump.”</p>

<p>Mercer’s memory began to return in flashes—the cabin, the explosion, trying to save Brennan. “You son of a bitch,” he managed to say through gritted teeth, “just wait until I’m able to return the favor.”</p>

<p>“Sorry, Major, I didn’t recognize you. Was a bit of a tense situation.”</p>

<p>Mercer looked around, trying to gather his bearings. He was in an e-chopper. Luke Brennan was strapped on a gurney, wrapped in a thermal blanket, and having an IV dangle from the ceiling, but he was awake.</p>

<p>“He’ll live. Hanson wasn’t so lucky,” the man facing him said.</p>

<p>“Where are you taking me?”</p>

<p>“Back to base, Major.”</p>

<p>“What’s that with all the Major shit? Who are you?”</p>

<p>“Sergeant Mendez, Sir, and this is Lance Corporal Decker.”</p>

<p>“Alright, and I’m Mercer. Or Agent Mercer. But not Major. Not anymore.”</p>

<p>“Well, technically, not Agent anymore, either,” Brennan said, turning his face to him. “And thanks for taking care of my leg, Mercer,” he added, turning his face to the ceiling again.</p>

<p>“Whoa, wait. What was that with not being an Agent anymore?” Mercer said, his headache getting even worse.</p>

<p>“As far as we know, the FBI suspended you,” Mendez said, pointing to the tablet on his lap as if that would explain anything.</p>

<p>“Maybe you should try to rest for the next few minutes, Sir. General Clayton is expecting you for a debriefing, Major.”</p>

<p>Mercer closed his eyes and decided to let it slip.</p>

<hr />

<p>After marching through the forest for about 60 minutes without exchanging a word, David Donnelly signaled them to halt again. They had arrived at a creek that gurgled through a bend, followed by a small eddy. David crouched down and drank from the water, motioning Joe and Emily to do the same. He also produced two soft flasks from his backpack and filled them.</p>

<p>“How did they find us?” Joe asked while chewing on an energy bar that David had handed to both of them.</p>

<p>“My best guess is that they followed Mercer and Emmy to the cabin,” David answered thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“You think he betrayed us?” Emily asked wearily.</p>

<p>“We can’t rule it out,” Joe said while raising a brow and looking at Emily.</p>

<p>“No, we can’t rule it out. But that would have been a suicide mission, given the amount of C4 that blew us up. Somebody wanted to make very sure, that we were very dead indeed,” David said with a small shrug.</p>

<p>“Maybe he had a tail and didn’t notice. Was there anything suspicious on your ride?” Joe asked Emily.</p>

<p>“We left our phones in my hotel in Boston. Alex was making an effort that we weren’t followed when he drove.”</p>

<p>“In your hotel? Didn’t know you were that close now with ‘Alex’?” Joe scowled, making air quotes when mentioning Mercer’s first name.</p>

<p>“You jealous now, Joe? Didn’t know you cared anyways,” Emily scowled back.</p>

<p>“Alright, kids, that’s not helpful,” David interrupted them. “When this is over, you two can take a long walk in the park and sort things out. But until then, focus!”</p>

<p>An uneasy silence lingered for a minute until David spoke again. “So, back to the drone raid. It was a bit flashy, so the question is, who was behind it, and why the fireworks?”</p>

<p>“Maybe it was some kind of public relations stunt. Show the world that Joe is scattered all through the woods of Maine,” Emily frowned.</p>

<p>“That would make quite a story. Maybe making it look like you blew yourself up while building a bomb or a killer drone,” David reasoned.</p>

<p>“Well, having explosives and weapons hidden somewhere seems to be more your style, to be honest,” Joe said while watching David carefully.</p>

<p>“Fair enough,” David shrugged and put on his backpack again, “but I also know how to handle them.”</p>

<p>“Maybe it was just Bolt being Bolt,” Emily said, trying to defuse the situation.</p>

<p>“Yeah, that fucker,” Joe admitted, and David nodded.</p>

<p>“We’ll find out more when we access the news feeds. Let’s get moving again, guys,” David said and turned around.</p>

<hr />

<p>“Major Mercer, come in,” General Richard Clayton said, sitting in his combat uniform behind a nondescript desk at the Marine Corps headquarters at Henderson Hall.</p>

<p>Alex Mercer entered the room briskly and came not quite to attention before he answered. “Good to see you, General, although the circumstances are less desirable. And with all due respect, it’s Agent nowadays.”</p>

<p>“And that’s a shame, especially since the FBI seems to be reconsidering your relationship with each other. But enough chitchat. Have a seat, Alex.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Sir. I understand we are here to talk about Joe Hartman?”</p>

<p>“Amongst other things. But first I would indeed appreciate your opinion on Hartman.”</p>

<p>“Permission to speak freely?” The General nodded.</p>

<p>“He’s a dick, but probably not a killer.” Mercer paused. “Before someone tried to bust his balls with a lot of C4, he and his friends, Emily Stone and David Donnelly, told me a rather wild story. Although, if true, we’re at the brink of anarchy and chaos.”</p>

<p>“How come?”</p>

<p>“He explained that nobody less than Jason Bolt added a hidden backdoor to the AI chips that his company produces. You could stealthily manipulate every device running on it. And that is a lot. Basically, everything, from hospitals to banks to cars.”</p>

<p>Richard Clayton closed his eyes and rubbed his forehead, an unusual gesture of stress for the battle-hardened warrior facing him, as far as Mercer could tell.</p>

<p>“Go ahead,” Clayton said under his breath.</p>

<p>“Well, it seems that the killing cars in Georgetown were the first demonstration of this capability. Hartman worked out that it was likely an assassination, and other casualties were just for covering up the fact.</p>

<p>“So, General, I’ve shown you mine. What about you show me yours? Why was Brennan and his team after Hartman? I nearly shot Luke when they tried to kidnap the professor.”</p>

<p>“The first man that was killed in Georgetown was a whistleblower. He contacted me anonymously and offered information about the autonomous drone program. Captain Monroe was about to meet him. I hoped…” Clayton stopped in his tracks.</p>

<p>Mercer nodded. “You hoped that he had something about Sarah.”</p>

<p>Clayton looked him straight in the eyes while he was searching for words. “Yes. We both know that death is part of the soldier’s life. When Sarah enlisted in the Marines, it was clear that this could happen, being killed in action. But this… I need to know what happened.”</p>

<p>Alex pondered the situation and decided. “I can’t imagine how you must be feeling. She was…” Mercer wasn’t sure how to continue. “We also discussed this…“</p>

<p>“You spoke about Sarah?!” The general leaned forward abruptly, moving to the edge of his chair.</p>

<p>“Yes, they tried to understand your interest in Hartman, and Stone did her research. Hartman told me Bolt likely used a buggy version of the onboard AI. It wouldn’t have been the first time Bolt used this approach to train an AI in the wild. Unfortunately, this sounds realistic enough.”</p>

<p>Richard Clayton stood up and walked to the window, straightening his cammies. His eyes wandered over the lawn in front of the building and rested briefly on the Stars and Stripes flying from the white flag pole.</p>

<p>“The Autonomous Drone Continuity Program is about to be set into action. Tomorrow at 2400 hours. You know what that means? The Russians or Chinese hit us hard? Our drones retaliate. No human interaction required. Their AIs select the targets. They can even lock us out if they believe we are compromised. Flying killer robots on autopilot, deciding who lives and who dies. They have their independent nuclear power stations and their own warheads stored across the country. Small drone bases hidden in the U.S. and abroad. And guess who built them? Bolt Industries. We’re handing this motherfucker enough firepower to not only start a civil war but wreak havoc around the globe.”</p>

<p>Clayton turned around to Mercer, whose jaw went slack. “And nobody wants to hear about it. God knows I’ve tried to make them listen. But the Secretary of Defense and POTUS think I’m just an old fart standing in the way of progress. We need to stop this. We need to stop Bolt.”</p>

<p>“Affirmative, Sir,” Alex said, his mind racing through the potential scenarios. “But no matter how I think about it, we will need Joe Hartman for this.”</p>

	</section>
</body>
</html>
